<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Chapter 2</title>
<meta content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:b852dd50-93f3-aac3-96bd-685618565092" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="ct" id="pt1ct2"><a href="004-Contents.xhtml#spt1sct2">2</a></p>
<p class="ftxt">Two weeks later, I was standing in Jimbocho Station. How had it come to this? In an instant, my life had changed so quickly that I was still reeling from it.</p>
<p class="txt">After the conversation with my uncle, I had a phone call with my mother. “What’ll it be?” she asked. “Come back to Kyushu or go to Satoru’s place?” I reluctantly chose my uncle’s. I knew that if I went back home, I’d probably be pushed into an arranged marriage, and I’d never come back here again. After all the trouble I’d gone through to move to Tokyo, I couldn’t stand the idea of going back like that and admitting that it had all been a total failure.</p>
<p class="txt">Being outside for the first time in a long while, I felt unsteady on my feet. But I made it to Jimbocho on the train somehow. Yet the moment I came aboveground from the subway, I felt fierce sunlight bearing down on me. The rainy season had completely given way to summer while I was asleep. Above my head, the sun was glaring down at me like a teenage boy. When I’d quit my job, the real heat of summer still seemed far away. It made me a little sad—even the seasons were betraying me.</p>
<p class="txt">This was the first time I’d ever been to Jimbocho. My grandfather’s house was in Kunitachi, an hour to the west, so we didn’t have much reason to come here.</p>
<p class="txt">For a moment, I stood at the traffic signal at an intersection, turning around and around, trying to take everything in.</p>
<p class="txt">It all looked so strange.</p>
<p class="txt">I saw a main avenue (which my uncle had told me was Yasukuni Street), and all along it on both sides were rows of bookshops. Everywhere you turned, there was another bookshop.</p>
<p class="txt">Now, normally one would be enough for a street. Here, however, the majority of the stores were bookshops. While your eye might have been drawn at first to the bigger ones like Sanseidō and Shosen, what really stood out were the small used bookshops. Seeing them all in a row together had its own subtle impact. On the other side of the street, towards Suidōbashi, there were a few large office buildings, but they only ended up making the place seem even more bizarre.</p>
<p class="txt">Still confused, I crossed an intersection that was crowded with salarymen on their lunch break and walked down the street of bookshops. Following my uncle’s directions, I left the main road and turned into a little backstreet called Sakura. This brought me to an area of secondhand bookshops.</p>
<p class="txt">I murmured to myself, “This is a wonderland of secondhand books.”</p>
<p class="txt">As I stood there getting broiled in the hot sun, trying to figure out how I was going to find my uncle’s store, I noticed a man looking my way, waving his hands in the air. His hair was messy; he was wearing black, thick-framed glasses, and he was so skinny and small that he seemed boyish. He’d thrown on a short-sleeved checked shirt, loose cotton pants, and some sandals. I definitely recognized that look. It was my uncle Satoru.</p>
<p class="txt">His whole face lit up as he said, “Hey, Takako, that is you after all.”</p>
<p class="txt">Up close, I could see my uncle had aged a lot. There was no hiding the deep wrinkles around his eyes. His skin, once as white as some ill-fated damsel in a fairytale, was now marked by a phenomenal number of sunspots. But behind his glasses, you could see that strange, childlike glint in his eye.</p>
<p class="txt">“Were you waiting for me out in front of the store all this time?”</p>
<p class="txt">“I thought this was around when you’d show up. You know the whole area is just one secondhand bookshop after another, and I figured I can’t have you getting lost, right? So I came out to wait for you. All this time I was expecting a schoolgirl in uniform, but at some point, I guess, you must’ve grown up.”</p>
<p class="txt">It made sense. The last time I’d seen him I was in my first year of high school. We’d come up to Tokyo for the first anniversary of my grandfather’s passing. It had been almost ten years since then. He was still the same though. He might be over forty now, but he still had that same breezy way about him. He was the exact opposite of anyone’s idea of a dignified man. Which was something I absolutely couldn’t stand about him when I was teenager. I was so sensitive then about gauging the distance between other people and me.</p>
<p class="txt">After I stopped staring at my uncle, I turned to look at the storefront.</p>
<p class="txt">“So this is the shop my great-grandfather started.”</p>
<p class="txt">I stared at the shop with its sign that read <span class="smallcaps">MORISAKI BOOKSHOP: SPECIALIZING IN LITERATURE OF THE MODERN ERA</span> and felt a little moved by the sight. Even though I’d never met my great-grandfather, I still thought it was a pretty big deal that my uncle was the third generation in our family to carry on the tradition.</p>
<p class="txt">The shop was about thirty years old, but it looked like something from an earlier era. Through the glass doors of the little two-floor wooden building, you could see the books crammed together.</p>
<p class="txt">“The original shop was on Suzuran Street back in the Taishō era. Of course, it’s gone now, so I guess this is sort of the second Morisaki Bookshop.”</p>
<p class="txt">“Wow.”</p>
<p class="txt">“Well, come in, come in.”</p>
<p class="txt">My uncle practically yanked my luggage out of my hands and ushered me into the shop. The instant I stepped inside I was hit by a musty smell.</p>
<p class="txt">I accidentally said the word “musty” out loud.</p>
<p class="txt">My uncle laughed and corrected me.“Do me a favor and try to imagine it as the dampness after a morning rain.”</p>
<p class="txt">Everywhere you looked there were books. In this small room that barely saw the sun, everything seemed suffused with the scent of the Shōwa era. Paperbacks and hardcovers were packed tightly on the well-organized bookshelves. The larger collections of complete works were piled up in stacks along the wall. Even the area behind the little counter with the register was full of books. If there were ever a big earthquake, it would undoubtedly all fall down, and you’d be buried beneath an avalanche of books.</p>
<p class="txt">“How many books do you have here?” I asked, half in shock. </p>
<p class="txt">“I’d say roughly about six thousand.”</p>
<p class="txt">“Six thousand!” I shrieked.</p>
<p class="txt">“This place is small, so that’s pretty much the limit.”</p>
<p class="txt">“What does that mean, ‘specializing in literature of the modern era’?”</p>
<p class="txt">“We concentrate on modern Japanese authors. Come here. Look.”</p>
<p class="txt">At my uncle’s urging, I scanned the spines of the books lined up on the shelves. There were authors whose names I recognized like Ryūnosuke Akutagawa, Sōseki Natsume, Ōgai Mori, but mostly it was authors I’d never heard of before. And the ones I’d heard of, I only knew from what I’d read in class in high school.</p>
<p class="txt">“So, um, you collect books from all these authors?” I said.</p>
<p class="txt">My uncle laughed. “Most of the bookshops around here deal primarily in one specific field or type of book. There are stores for scholarly books. There are stores that only handle scripts for plays. There are also some more unusual shops that only deal in stuff like old postcards and photographs. This neighborhood has the largest concentration of secondhand bookshops in the world.”</p>
<p class="txt">“In the world?”</p>
<p class="txt">“Yeah. Because back in the Meiji era at the end of the nineteenth century and the beginning of the twentieth, the neighborhood was a center of culture, and it was loved by cultured people and writers. The reason there are so many bookstores is that they built a lot of schools in the neighborhood in that era, which meant there were suddenly all these stores selling scholarly books.”</p>
<p class="txt">“It goes that far back?”</p>
<p class="txt">“Oh yeah, and that history continues uninterrupted to the present here. Writers like Ōgai Mori and Jun’ichirō Tanizaki wrote novels set here. Now, lots of tourists from overseas come.”</p>
<p class="txt">He was talking about it with so much pride it was like it all belonged to him.</p>
<p class="txt">“I’ve been living in Tokyo, but I didn’t have the slightest idea about this place,” I said, frankly impressed. Honestly, that response from my uncle to my little question impressed me too. For someone everyone in my family thought was just drifting aimlessly, someone who never looked for a real job, he seemed to know a lot. It reminded me that back when I would go see him when I was young, his room was always filled with difficult books of history and philosophy.</p>
<p class="txt">“Next time, you should wander around a bit, check out the area. There are lots of interesting places. Let’s leave it till another day though. Let me show you to your room first. The second floor is buried in books from the rest of the collection, but the room is big.”</p>
<p class="txt">When we peeked into the room on the second floor, I almost fainted on the spot. This “collection” he’d mentioned turned out to be towering stacks of books all over the room. There wasn’t anywhere to step inside. It was a scene straight out of a sci-fi movie set in a city of the not-so-distant future. An ancient air conditioner was running full blast, but one by one drops of sweat appeared on my skin. I could hear the piercing call of a cicada somewhere in the distance.</p>
<p class="txt">I turned to my uncle standing next to me and gave him an icy glare. What was he talking about when he said he was getting ready for me? There wasn’t enough space for a mouse to stretch its legs in that room.</p>
<p class="txt">“Damn, I’d meant to organize things in there before you got here, but . . .” he said, rubbing the back of his head apologetically. “You see, I threw my back out three days ago. It’s the bookseller’s destiny, I’m afraid. But I did move half of the books over to the empty room next door. So if you just toss the remaining ones in there too, you should be right at home.”</p>
<p class="txt">At that moment, we heard the sound of the glass door downstairs opening, and my uncle said, “Sorry about that,” and ran back downstairs.</p>
<p class="txt">I looked around the room and sighed.”Toss” them in there, he said. Easy for him to say. I felt like I’d been duped. But I’d already broken the lease for my apartment, and I didn’t have anywhere else to live. I prepared myself for the worst and started cleaning up the room.</p>
<p class="txt">For the entire day, I waged a war against those books. I was heaving huge piles into the room next door, dripping with sweat. But if I got even the slightest bit careless, my Towers of Babel would collapse, struck down by an angry God. Little by little, my intense hatred for those books grew stronger. Nevertheless, by evening, I’d somehow succeed in clearing out the majority of books into the empty room. I rescued the little table that had been buried in the avalanche. In the room next door, the books were piled to the ceiling. I was a little worried that the floor might collapse. But it seemed like a sturdy enough building, so I told myself it would be okay. Then I took out the vacuum and sucked up all the dust and bits of trash that had been floating above the ground like evil spirits. Once I had wiped down the walls and tatami mats with a dust cloth, the room started to look like someplace a human being might actually inhabit.</p>
<p class="txt">I was standing in the entrance to the room with my hands on my hips, surveying my work with some measure of satisfaction, when my uncle closed up the shop and came upstairs to see me.</p>
<p class="txt">“Whoa, you really cleaned things up. Amazing,” he said. “Takako, I swear if you’d been born in England in the latter half of the nineteenth century, you could have been a brilliant maid.” He went on saying more ridiculous things like that to me.</p>
<p class="txt"><i>Oh God,</i> I thought, <i>I’m going to have to get along with this person.</i></p>
<p class="txt">“I’m tired and I’m going to bed,” I said.</p>
<p class="txt">“Definitely, take it easy, get all the rest you need. Tomorrow morning you can help me out though, right?”</p>
<p class="txt">Once my uncle had left the shop, I got right into the bath, and then crawled into my musty-smelling futon without even drying my hair.</p>
<p class="txt">When I turned off the lights, the room suddenly fell completely silent. It was like all those books were absorbing the sound.</p>
<p class="txt">I looked up at the dim ceiling in a daze and started feeling hopeless. <i>Can I really stay here for a while? I don’t see myself getting used to this.</i> But it only lasted a moment. One second later, I was snoring.</p>
<p class="txt">In my dream, I was an android maid living in a city in the not-so-distant future. In that neighborhood, all the buildings were made of used books.</p>
<p class="ftxt"> </p>
<p class="ftxt"><i>When I opened</i> my eyes the next morning, I had no idea where I was. I looked over at the alarm clock beside me. The time read 10:22.</p>
<p class="txt">All of a sudden, I came back to reality. “Ah!” I yelled and jumped out of bed. The store opens at ten. Before I went to bed I set my alarm for eight, but at some point it must have been turned off. <i>Who on earth played this cruel trick on me?</i> The culprit, of course, was me.</p>
<p class="txt">What a mess! I’d always been good at waking up on time. I’d been proud of the fact that in my three years at the company I was never once late. But here I was in my pajamas, with total bed head, hurrying down the stairs, rushing to push up the heavy metal shutter out front. As I did, the summer light poured into the room. All the stores facing the street were already open. I was clearly getting a late start.</p>
<p class="txt">What could I do? For about a half hour, I just sat stupidly at the counter in my pajamas, half-panicked. But to my surprise, no one came in.</p>
<p class="txt">Later on, it didn’t seem that anyone was going to show up. There were some people walking down the street, but they walked right by. Feeling like an idiot, I casually went upstairs and changed my clothes, brushed my hair, and even put on a little makeup, and then came down again.</p>
<p class="txt">At around noon, people started to trickle in. But for the most part, they only bought the cheap fifty-yen or one-hundred-yen paperbacks. I found myself worrying whether the shop was going to make it. After stifling about thirty yawns, I dozed off a couple of times.</p>
<p class="txt">Around one, a middle-aged man turned up. He was short and stout and spectacularly bald. As soon as he saw me sitting behind the counter, he did a double take.“What? Where’s Satoru—more importantly, who are you? Did they hire a girl to work part-time? But this place can’t afford to hire anyone, can it?”</p>
<p class="txt">He hit me with one question after another. How could I describe him? He was the kind of middle-aged man who didn’t hold anything back.</p>
<p class="txt">“Um, my uncle will be coming in around two. I’m his niece, Takako. I’m sort of part-time, I suppose. I’m working for room and board. As for the shop’s financial situation, I’m afraid I’m not familiar with the details.”</p>
<p class="txt">As I ran through my replies, the man studied me carefully with a look of deep interest.</p>
<p class="txt">“Oh wow,” he said. “How did I not know that all this time Satoru had a cute, young niece.”</p>
<p class="txt">I flashed a sweet smile. It was lucky for me he hadn’t seen my shameful appearance this morning. Maybe he was a sweet old guy after all. He seemed pleasant enough, and what’s more, he had good taste.</p>
<p class="txt">“So I was thinking about reading Naoya Shiga again. It’s been a while. You know how my wife threw out most of mine a while ago.”</p>
<p class="txt">He wandered around the bookshelves as he talked. How should I know what happened with his wife? I just met him today.</p>
<p class="txt">“Where are they again?”</p>
<p class="txt">“Where are what?”</p>
<p class="txt">“The Naoya Shiga books.”</p>
<p class="txt">“Ah, well, um, they’re probably somewhere around there.”</p>
<p class="txt">The man suddenly gave me a stern look, as if he were trying to evaluate me.</p>
<p class="txt">“Are you a reader?”</p>
<p class="txt">“Definitely not.”</p>
<p class="txt">In the instant I answered, my middle-aged companion transformed into a demon. His eyes lit up as he glared at me.</p>
<p class="txt">That is when his diatribe began. <i>Good grief.</i> “Young people today, they don’t read books anymore. They just play computer games. It’s hopeless. And even if they do read books, it’s just manga or these shallow little stories on their cell phones. Even my son, he’s almost thirty and he still just plays video games all the time. Is that okay? You think so? Absolutely not. They’re only seeing the surface of things. And if you don’t want to be a shallow person, then you should try reading some of the wonderful books in this place.”</p>
<p class="txt">The man went on and on talking like this. When he finally went home, it was almost an hour later. In the end, his monologue went on so long that he left without buying anything. I was getting exhausted too. When my uncle showed up a half hour later, for a moment, he seemed like my savior.</p>
<p class="txt">“How was your first day? Any trouble?” he said. As he asked the question, he went straight to check the account ledger for the day.</p>
<p class="txt">“No,” I said wearily. “But a little after noon, a guy came in. It was as if his head was a dandelion and all the fuzz blew away except for the sides. He talked a lot.”</p>
<p class="txt">“Ah, that’s Sabu. He’s been a regular here for about twenty years.”</p>
<p class="txt">I laughed in spite of myself. The name Sabu fit him perfectly.</p>
<p class="txt">“That guy, what can I say, he loves the great writers of Japanese literature from the bottom of his heart. But he’s a talker. I get trapped sometimes too. But if you make a little tea, and nod and say ‘oh’ and ‘ah’ a little bit, he goes home.”</p>
<p class="txt">Ah, I thought, there’s a lot to the service industry. Even the notion of a regular customer seemed like a rare thing these days. </p>
<p class="txt">“By the way, Uncle . . .” I said, remembering my biggest question of the day. </p>
<p class="txt">“What is it?”</p>
<p class="txt">“Is the shop okay? There aren’t that many customers. And the people who buy books only buy the cheap ones . . .”</p>
<p class="txt">My uncle laughed, sounding apparently happy.</p>
<p class="txt">“That’s true. These days secondhand books don’t sell well. Back when my father was young, the secondhand bookshops did incredible business. But the situation is different now. I mean the publishing industry wasn’t like it is now, and there was no television. However, we started selling online six years ago. And sometimes we sell a sought-after book that goes for a lot of money. We’re making it work somehow. And we have a good number of regular customers like Sabu, who have been with us since my father’s time. Takako, don’t you go to secondhand bookshops?”</p>
<p class="txt">“I go to BookOff sometimes. I can read manga there.”</p>
<p class="txt">“These days it’s just big chains like that. But in those places you’re never going to find a book written by a writer from decades ago. There’s no demand for it. Still, there are a lot of people in this world who love old books. There are even some girls your age. For people like that, this place is heaven. And I happen to be one of those people.”</p>
<p class="txt">“I remember your room used to be filled with books. How long ago did you take over the store?”</p>
<p class="txt">“It was right after my father died. So almost ten years? But compared to the other shop owners around here, I’m just a spring chicken. They’ve all been running their bookshops for thirty, forty years.”</p>
<p class="txt">“Wow. That’s amazing. It’s almost beyond comprehension.”</p>
<p class="txt">“Takako, you should try to read some. You can read any of the books here,” he said, smiling.</p>
<p class="txt">I just laughed.</p>

</body>
</html>