<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Chapter 6</title>
<meta content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:b852dd50-93f3-aac3-96bd-685618565092" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="ct" id="pt1ct6"><a href="004-Contents.xhtml#spt1sct6">6</a></p>
<p class="ftxt">On the last night of the festival, after we closed the shop, I was sitting alone in my room in a daze. Outside the window, the streets were so quiet and still that the crowds of the past week already seemed like a dream. As I lay on my futon, the ticking of my alarm clock seemed too loud. I was staring up at the ceiling when I felt that strange uneasy feeling return, that loneliness I’d felt when I first arrived here.</p>
<p class="txt">Suddenly, there was a knock at the door. I felt my shoulders trembling. As I turned timidly toward it, I saw in the narrow opening at the edge of the sliding door an eye glaring back at me.</p>
<p class="txt">“Aahhhh!” I turned pale and shrieked like a heroine in a horror movie.</p>
<p class="txt">“Oh, did I surprise you?” a strange, high-pitched voice said. And then a shaggy head popped into view.</p>
<p class="txt">I heaved a sigh of relief.</p>
<p class="txt">“Please don’t surprise me like that, Uncle.”</p>
<p class="txt">“Sorry, sorry.” He put down the plastic bag he’d been holding in both hands and said, “Mind if I come in for a second?” as he walked into the room. He took out some bottles of alcohol and juice and set them up on the little dining table. He’d even brought potato chips and shredded squid snacks.</p>
<p class="txt">“Didn’t you go to the end-of-festival wrap party?” I asked.</p>
<p class="txt">“I just went to say hello and then I came back. Besides, I’d rather have a wrap party with just the two of us,” he said with a smile like a mischievous child.</p>
<p class="txt">“Now that you mention it, we’ve never had a drink together.”</p>
<p class="txt">“Well, okay, then. Let’s do it.” My uncle spread out all the contents of his plastic bag and we had our little wrap party. We sipped our sake, listening to the faint chirping of crickets through the open window. The quiet night enveloped us. Time passed so slowly that it felt like it had come to a halt.</p>
<p class="txt">My uncle stretched his legs comfortably as he leaned back against the bookshelf.</p>
<p class="txt">“Takako, it looks like you’ve totally gotten used to life here,” he said.</p>
<p class="txt">“I think so too. At first I wasn’t so sure it would work out, but somehow it has. I’m fully enjoying this little vacation from my life,” I said with a little laugh.</p>
<p class="txt">“I’m glad to hear it.”</p>
<p class="txt">“But I’m frustrated too.”</p>
<p class="txt">“About what?”</p>
<p class="txt">“You knew from the beginning that I’d totally love it here.”</p>
<p class="txt">“Don’t feel bad about that. It makes me very happy that you like it. If you want, you know, you can stay here forever.”</p>
<p class="txt">Hearing my uncle’s kind words, I felt a little twinge in my heart.</p>
<p class="txt">“Why are you so good to me though? I know I’m your niece, but we hadn’t seen each other in so long.”</p>
<p class="txt">“Because I love you, Takako.” He said it without any hint of embarrassment. He seemed almost distracted. “I know, for you, I might be some relative you don’t know that well, but for me it’s different. For me, you’re an angel.”</p>
<p class="txt">I almost spit out my beer.</p>
<p class="txt">No one had ever said anything like that to me before—no man, no woman had ever talked to me like that before.</p>
<p class="txt">“That’s right. An angel. You’re the person who saved me.”</p>
<p class="txt">“Saved you?” I asked, understanding him less and less.</p>
<p class="txt">I had no memory of having ever done anything for him.</p>
<p class="txt">“That’s right. You saved me. That’s just my way of thinking of it. But I’m sure it won’t be a very interesting story to you. Let’s drop the subject.”</p>
<p class="txt">“No, I want to hear it,” I said sincerely.</p>
<p class="txt">My uncle stared at me for a moment and then asked if I promised I wouldn’t laugh.</p>
<p class="txt">I nodded in agreement, and my uncle started speaking slowly, as if he were remembering something from long ago.</p>
<p class="txt">“It started in my late teens. I was feeling depressed. I couldn’t see the value of life anymore. I couldn’t seem to fit in, at home or at school. I just withdrew into myself and closed everything else out. I was overly self-conscious, I had too many ideals and ambitions for one person, and because of that, I ended up without a single one I could hold on to. I was an empty person. That’s what I was. It seemed like there was absolutely nowhere I belonged in this world.”</p>
<p class="txt">I’d never had the slightest inkling that my uncle had felt this way. But I also had no idea what on earth this had to do with me being an angel.</p>
<p class="txt">“You were born right around that time. I first met you when my sister brought you back home to introduce my father and everyone to his new granddaughter. The instant I saw you, so tiny wrapped up in your blanket, sleeping so peacefully, I thought I might cry. How can I put it? I could feel the mystery of life filling my heart. The idea of this child growing up, experiencing so many things for the first time, absorbing so much—all of it brought me as much joy as if it were happening to me.</p>
<p class="txt">“All of a sudden, I felt as if my twisted heart was being filled with warm light. It was still blurry, but I could feel a sense of purpose growing within me. That’s when I made my decision. It was time to stop shutting myself up in a cage. It was time to get moving, to look around, and learn what I could from it all. Time to go in search of a place where I belonged, a place where I could say with confidence that I felt right. All the trips I went on, all the books I read, were the consequences of that decision. In other words, Takako, meeting you led me to a kind of epiphany.”</p>
<p class="txt">“An epiphany . . . That’s amazing.”</p>
<p class="txt">“So, that’s what I mean when I say you’re the one who saved me. That’s why I’ll do anything for you.”</p>
<p class="txt">My uncle said this so earnestly that I didn’t know how to respond<i>.</i> I felt embarrassed by how childish I’d been, getting angry at him, and feeling sorry for myself. To think that all this time he’d cared so much about me. I felt like I finally understood the reason that he’d been so kind to me when I was little. I was an idiot. At the time I thought it was my natural right to be treated so kindly.</p>
<p class="txt">The joy of realizing that someone loved me that much made my heart want to burst. I tried to make a joke to hold back the tears welling up in my eyes. “Uncle,” I said, “that’s not exactly dialogue you should deliver while you’re eating shredded squid.”</p>
<p class="txt">My uncle laughed out loud.</p>
<p class="txt">“So did you end up finding the place you belonged?”</p>
<p class="txt">“Well, I guess you might say that. But it took me many years to get there.” My uncle nodded quietly. “This is it. Our little, rundown Morisaki Bookshop. I had so many aspirations. I flew all over the world only to end up back at the place I’d known every bit of since I was a child. Hilarious, isn’t it? After all that time, I came back here. That’s when I finally realized it wasn’t just a question of where I was. It was about something inside me. No matter where I went, no matter who I was with, if I could be honest with myself, then that was where I belonged. By the time I realized that, half my life was over. So I went back to my favorite harbor, and I decided to drop anchor. For me, this is a sacred place. It’s where I feel most at ease.”</p>
<p class="txt">“That reminds me,” I said. “A long time ago, Sabu told me that you were the store’s savior.”</p>
<p class="txt">He laughed. “Its savior? That’s a pretty big exaggeration. Basically, when my father fell ill, the business was on the brink—all I did was take over and keep it going. At first, my father was pretty strongly opposed to me taking over the shop. It was a tough time in the used book business, after all, and I was this irresponsible guy. But I got down on my knees and pleaded with him to entrust the shop to me.”</p>
<p class="txt">“So that’s how it happened.”</p>
<p class="txt">“I mean I couldn’t sit back and let it all fall apart, could I? This was where I spent most of my childhood. I would sit at the counter next to my father, quietly reading books like <i>Hans Christian Andersen’s Fairy Tales</i>, and from time to time, he would stroke my head firmly with his giant hand. I was truly happy then. It felt like if this place was gone, then all of my memories would disappear too. I couldn’t handle that.”</p>
<p class="txt">I felt absolutely bowled over by what my uncle was telling me. </p>
<p class="txt">I’d thought I knew—or at least I’d meant to find out—what my relationship with my uncle was all about. Didn’t I realize that he had his own private worries and pain? Didn’t I see that his heart had been crying out for far longer than mine had? Why didn’t I see how much was going on inside him?</p>
<p class="txt">Maybe the reason my uncle was always clowning around in front of people was to hide what he was feeling from them. The effort must have been excruciating. To look at him, they’d never realize what he felt inside . . .</p>
<p class="txt">The thought of it made my heart ache.</p>
<p class="txt">“I wish this place could have meant as much to Momoko too. She left just as I was trying so hard to rebuild the business. Right up until the end, I still had no sense what she was feeling beneath the surface.”</p>
<p class="txt">“Uncle.”</p>
<p class="txt">“Yes?”</p>
<p class="txt">“I love this shop. I really do.”</p>
<p class="txt">I’d meant to say something more clever, but that was all that came out of my mouth. It was true, though, and I felt it sincerely. </p>
<p class="txt">“Thank you. This shop might not be indispensable for most people, but if it matters that much to even just one other person, then I feel I can keep it going for decades. It’s like the line from Naoe Kinoshita in <i>Confessions of a Husband</i>, ‘My boat travels lightly, drifting aimlessly at the mercy of the current.’ That’s how I want to live my life with this shop,” my uncle said, and then he smiled without saying any more.</p>
<p class="ftxt"> </p>
<p class="ftxt"><i>From that night,</i> I started to think more seriously about my own life. I’d found a warm, calm place to stay here, but I couldn’t remain dependent on others forever. If I did, I would never grow up. My heart would always be weak. I was convinced that if I didn’t leave, I would never be able to start over.</p>
<p class="txt">But the moment I thought that, my fears came rushing back. The thought of leaving frightened me. <i>Just let me stay a little longer.</i> In my heart I was still dependent on others.</p>
<p class="txt">In the end, I hesitated, and, for a long time afterward, I went on living on the second floor of the Morisaki Bookshop.</p>
<p class="txt">Maybe I was waiting for some kind of cue. Then one day, suddenly, it arrived.</p>

</body>
</html>