<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Chapter 8</title>
<meta content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:b852dd50-93f3-aac3-96bd-685618565092" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="ct" id="pt1ct8"><a href="004-Contents.xhtml#spt1sct8">8</a></p>
<p class="ftxt">It was right after that that I decided to leave the shop. As strange as it might sound, that event gave me the boost I needed. All my troubles had vanished, and my body felt light. At last I was ready to leave.</p>
<p class="txt">I found a new place where I could live starting in March. It was pretty far away from the shop, but it was the best I could do. I still had a lot of questions about what I was going to do next. For the time being, however, I’d gotten a part-time position at a little design firm through my old job.</p>
<p class="txt">When I told my uncle I intended to leave, he seemed quite surprised. “You don’t have to rush into any decisions,” he said in a panic.</p>
<p class="txt">But I had already made my decision.</p>
<p class="txt">“I’ve been enjoying this little vacation from my life for a long time already. If I don’t go now to look for the place where I belong, I might end up never finding it.”</p>
<p class="txt">My uncle listened to me, but he didn’t say anything else.</p>
<p class="txt">The month before I moved to my new place, I savored my last days at the Morisaki Bookshop. I worked diligently and spent my free time reading lots of books. Out of gratitude, I also did a deep clean of the shop and the second floor. And I even carefully organized the collection of books that was crammed haphazardly into the spare room on the day I arrived.</p>
<p class="txt">I let the regular customers and everyone at the Saveur know that I was leaving. They were all sorry to see me go. It almost made me cry to discover they cared so much about me. Sabu went so far as to say that I should marry his son and join his family. And it seemed like he was actually going to bring him by to set us up.</p>
<p class="txt">Takano and Tomo held a little going-away party for me. We gathered around a hotpot in my room on the second floor of the shop and celebrated late into the night. Tomo told me how sad she was that her book-loving friend wouldn’t be around anymore. “Next year,” she said, “let’s go to the festival together again, okay?” </p>
<p class="txt">That night Takano whispered to me that he’d taken Tomo to the movies in Shibuya a bit earlier. They didn’t seem to be a couple yet, but, given where Takano had started, this sounded like substantial progress. I was so happy to hear it, I actually said, “Not bad!” and slapped him as hard as I could on his slender back.</p>
<p class="txt">It was after this that Murano, Hideaki’s fiancée, contacted me unexpectedly, and we met up at the coffee shop to talk. My biggest worry about that night was that we’d ended up being terribly rude to her as well. I headed to the place we’d agreed upon, planning to offer my sincere apology. But once we were face to face, she was the one bowing deeply to apologize to me. She said she’d had her suspicions about his behavior earlier on, but after my unusual appearance that night, everything clicked for her. She questioned him again and again until he finally confessed. Until that night, she said, she never would have guessed that I was the other woman.</p>
<p class="txt">I kept trying earnestly to apologize to her. I said, “I’m to blame too,” but she just shook her head. She said the wedding was off now. When I heard that, I rushed to apologize again, but she said firmly, “It’s not your fault, Takako.”</p>
<p class="txt">That guilty feeling stayed with me though. When I told my uncle the next day what had happened, he said, “She’s right. Isn’t it better to find out now instead of after they’re married when it’s too late?” My uncle might be biased since he despised Hideaki, but when I realized he had a point, I felt a weight being lifted off my shoulders.</p>
<p class="txt">My uncle and I spent my last night at the shop drinking coffee together on the veranda on the second floor, staring up at the dark winter sky.</p>
<p class="txt">He gave me a giant stack of old books to remember my days at the bookshop. He said they were all books that had made a deep impression on him when he was young. Peeking into the heavy paper bag, I saw he’d filled it with books by some pretty serious writers, people like Takehiko Fukunaga and Kazuo Ozaki.</p>
<p class="txt">We spent our last night together feeling really at ease with one another. I’ll never forget what my uncle said to me then.</p>
<p class="txt">“There’s one thing I want you to promise me,” he said first as a preamble. Then he said, “Don’t be afraid to love someone. When you fall in love, I want you to fall in love all the way. Even if it ends in heartache, please don’t live a lonely life without love. I’ve been so worried that because of what happened you’ll give up on falling in love. Love is wonderful. I don’t want you to forget that. Those memories of people you love, they never disappear. They go on warming your heart as long as you live. When you get old like me, you’ll understand. How about it—can you promise me?”</p>
<p class="txt">“I get it. I promise,” I said. “I think this place taught me that. So you don’t have to worry.”</p>
<p class="txt">“In that case, you’ll be alright, no matter where you go.”</p>
<p class="txt">“Thank you, Uncle.”</p>
<p class="ftxt"> </p>
<p class="ftxt"><i>The day of</i> my departure, I stood in the morning light, staring at the Morisaki Bookshop. Such a tiny old wooden building. I lived here, I thought, but I could hardly believe it.</p>
<p class="txt">I remained where I was for a while, my breath turning white in the cold air. The street was enveloped in soft morning light. None of the stores had opened yet, and everything around seemed so profoundly peaceful and quiet.</p>
<p class="txt">I stood up straight, faced the shop, and bowed deeply. I vowed never to forget what my life at the bookshop had given me.</p>
<p class="txt">My uncle took the trouble to see me off despite how early it was. I thanked him from the bottom of my heart.</p>
<p class="txt">He had become an enormously important part of my life. It’s funny. I never would’ve imagined things turning out this way when I first arrived here.</p>
<p class="txt">As we said goodbye, my uncle’s manly attitude of the night before suddenly disappeared and he let himself sob like a child in front of everyone.</p>
<p class="txt">“I can’t take it. Please don’t go, Takako,” he said, holding my hand so tightly I thought he might never let go.</p>
<p class="txt">“I can come back and see you anytime,” I said. It seemed backward, but I was now consoling him.</p>
<p class="txt">“You take care of yourself for me, will you? And I’ll look after the shop, no matter what.”</p>
<p class="txt">It felt like if I stayed there a second longer, I’d lose my nerve to leave. So I quickly said goodbye to my uncle, who was still trying to hold on to me, and walked away down the street.</p>
<p class="txt">I kept on moving, making it to the end of Sakura Street without looking back. As I was walking, the memories came rushing back, and tears filled my eyes. But I somehow held on and walked to the end of the street.</p>
<p class="txt">Then on a hunch I stopped and snuck a look behind me. I saw my uncle standing right in the middle of the street waving to me, looking so small in the distance. Seeing him like that, I couldn’t hold on any longer. I burst into tears and started to sob.</p>
<p class="txt">I waved back to him with my face crumpled, and tears came pouring down my cheeks.</p>
<p class="txt">In response, my uncle waved back even more enthusiastically. I could see the morning light shining behind him.</p>
<p class="txt">I shouted, “Take care!” turned around, and walked into the crowds of Yasukuni Street.</p>
<p class="txt">Seeing me sobbing as I marched down the street, the people I passed must have surely thought there was something wrong with this weird woman. But I didn’t care in the slightest. After all, I was crying because I wanted to cry, and these were the happiest tears I’d ever known.</p>
<p class="txt">In the brisk early morning air, I sensed a faint sign of the spring to come. I looked straight ahead and kept going.</p>

</body>
</html>