<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Chapter 1</title>
<meta content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:b852dd50-93f3-aac3-96bd-685618565092" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="ct" id="pt2ct1"><a href="004-Contents.xhtml#spt2sct1">1</a></p>
<p class="ftxt">“Takako, it’s been so long! I feel like I’ve been away for a hundred years.”</p>
<p class="txt">That’s how my aunt Momoko greeted me when she saw me in front of the Morisaki Bookshop. She let out a loud laugh. She had a voice that carried, and you could hear it reverberating down the little street of bookstores.</p>
<p class="txt">It was true. She had come back. Now that she was standing in front of me, it finally felt real. Uncle Satoru had told me she was back and so I knew this, at least, in my head. But until I actually saw her, I didn’t really believe it. If a friend had told me they’d seen a ghost, I would’ve felt the same way.</p>
<p class="txt">But Momoko was really there. And she was incredibly cheerful. What was she so cheerful about? Was this the behavior of someone who suddenly reappeared after disappearing for five years? Uncle Satoru, on the other hand, was standing there looking like a dog who had just eaten something rotten. Shouldn’t it have been the other way around?</p>
<p class="txt">“You look like you’ve seen a ghost,” she said to me, acting offended. “That’s a little harsh.” I hadn’t said a word to her this whole time.</p>
<p class="txt">I almost told her I would’ve been less surprised if I had seen a ghost, but somehow I held back and managed to say, “You look great.” It had been more than ten years since we’d seen each other. </p>
<p class="txt">When Momoko was young, she was quite pretty. Maybe not drop-dead gorgeous, but there was a quiet beauty to her that caught your eye in an odd way. Like a stone you see glittering on the beach that’s not worth much on the market, but there’s still something about the way it shines. When I was a child and I saw her at family gatherings, I was always impressed by the way she sat so properly, tucked away in the farthest corner, as if she were trying not to stand out (Momoko is pretty small in stature). There was something almost mystical about her.</p>
<p class="txt">Despite the years, Momoko was still beautiful. She wore a simple outfit—a brown sweater with blue jeans—and barely any makeup. And yet with her perfect posture, her expressive face, and her brisk way of talking, she still seemed young. Rather than getting older, she looked more like she’d shed anything that was unnecessary.</p>
<p class="txt">In any case, this woman who was bursting with energy didn’t look at all like someone who had run off and suddenly come home. My uncle, on the other hand, with his hunched posture, shabby clothes, and messy hair, was looking awfully old.</p>
<p class="txt">“Takako, you look just like your mother,” Momoko said, narrowing her eyes and squinting at me. “At your grandfather’s funeral, you were in high school. It seems like that was just yesterday.”</p>
<p class="txt">And that’s how my uncle Satoru, my aunt Momoko, and I were all reunited on a bright and clear autumn evening, in front of the Morisaki Bookshop.</p>

</body>
</html>