<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Chapter 2</title>
<meta content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:b852dd50-93f3-aac3-96bd-685618565092" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="ct" id="pt2ct2"><a href="004-Contents.xhtml#spt2sct2">2</a></p>
<p class="ftxt">“She’s back.”</p>
<p class="txt">Two days earlier, my uncle had called. He sounded agitated. It had already been a year and a half since I’d left the Morisaki Bookshop.</p>
<p class="txt">After my long vacation there had ended, I started working at a small design firm. Three months ago, they’d promoted me from part-time to full-time, which meant that my days were slightly busier, so it had been about a couple of months since I’d stopped by for a visit.</p>
<p class="txt">So when my uncle called me, I’d assumed he was just going to ask me to come see him. But hearing how upset he sounded, I knew something big had happened.</p>
<p class="txt">On the phone, my uncle described the situation in so much detail that I started to get impatient. To briefly summarize our two-hour conversation, this is what happened.</p>
<p class="txt">On that particular day, my uncle had been working in his shop in Jimbocho from the morning to the evening, as usual. At lunch, he’d sold some rare volumes of Ōgai Mori and Sakunosuke Oda, a pretty good haul for the day, so he was in a particularly good mood at the start of the evening. He was whistling as he closed up the shop when he heard someone quietly open the front door and come inside.</p>
<p class="txt">He thought, “Oh no, a customer at this hour?” But he had his back to the door and was focused on closing for the day. The customer didn’t seem to be coming any farther inside. They were just standing there in front of the door, almost like they were holding their breath. How odd. My uncle started to get suspicious and turned around. Then he heard the customer mutter something. Hearing that voice was such a shock that my uncle said it felt like “getting hit over the head ten thousand times.”</p>
<p class="txt">At first, he thought he must be wrong, but he knew there was no way that could be true. It was impossible for him not to recognize that voice—as impossible as squeezing a hundred people into the Morisaki Bookshop.</p>
<p class="txt">While my uncle was still frozen with his back to her, unable to move, the customer repeated what she’d said a little more clearly, “Satoru . . .”</p>
<p class="txt">He took a deep breath and turned at last to see the owner of that voice. Suddenly, the familiar interior of the store receded into the distance, and there, in focus in the center of his field of view, was a single figure: his wife, who had left him five years earlier without so much as a word, until this moment. He couldn’t look away from her. He felt like he was dreaming. He’d had dreams like this hundreds of times before. But in those dreams, his wife had never felt this real. It was definitely Momoko standing there, looking almost exactly the way she did before she left.</p>
<p class="txt">After a long silence, Momoko quietly smiled and said, “I’m home.”</p>
<p class="txt">She said it exactly as if she’d just come back from a short walk. Her only luggage was a little bag she held in one hand.</p>
<p class="txt">My uncle stared at her for a long time before he finally replied, “Welcome back.”</p>
<p class="txt">Without saying anything more, Momoko went up quietly to the room on the second floor. She’d been living on the second floor of the bookshop ever since . . .</p>
<p class="ftxt"> </p>
<p class="ftxt"><i>“Wait, wait, wait</i> a second.” I had been listening patiently on the phone, but at this point he had gone past the limits of my endurance.</p>
<p class="txt">“What!? What’s all this ‘<i>I’m home!</i>’ ‘<i>Welcome back!</i>’ What do you mean she moved in? It sounds like a ghost story.”</p>
<p class="txt">“But it’s all true, Takako,” my uncle replied earnestly.</p>
<p class="txt">“If that’s true, then you’re both weird. Why did Momoko suddenly come back? And why did you just welcome her in without getting upset?”</p>
<p class="txt">“I don’t understand it myself,” my uncle said, sounding bewildered. He seemed deeply affected by what he’d told me. “But it happened so naturally.”</p>
<p class="txt">I was now too flabbergasted to speak. Granted, my uncle was a pretty unusual person, but the way they both were acting flew in the face of common sense.</p>
<p class="txt">“And after that did she happen to tell you anything more?” I asked him in all seriousness.</p>
<p class="txt">My uncle replied nonchalantly, “Yeah, I don’t know. It’s kind of hard to ask about it.”</p>
<p class="txt">“Well, in that case, why don’t you take her back to the house in Kunitachi and ask her about it the right way?”</p>
<p class="txt">“She doesn’t like it there. She says it’s hard to relax. She likes it better on the second floor of the shop. Listen, Takako, I don’t have the slightest idea how women’s emotions work. Why do <i>you</i> think she came back?”</p>
<p class="txt">I could hear how perplexed he was at the other end of the receiver. But I replied coldly, “How should I know? She’s your wife. Shouldn’t you know her better than anyone else?”</p>
<p class="txt">“I thought I knew her better than anyone else, but now everything’s screwed up. I’m groping around in the dark. You’re a girl. There’s got to be some kind of mutual understanding you share as women, right?”</p>
<p class="txt">“We have the same gender, but I think we might be entirely different species,” I said. My uncle was quiet for a long time, then he just said, “But, Takako . . . do you think . . . she’s going to leave again?”</p>
<p class="txt">Hearing the urgency in my uncle’s voice made me change my mind a tiny bit. I could still see how sad and lonely he’d looked from behind as he walked wearily up the road that night I asked him about Momoko. He still loved her, no matter what. And he was still in pain. I never wanted to see him like that again if there was anything I could do about it.</p>
<p class="txt">“You don’t want her to go?”</p>
<p class="txt">“I don’t know. Before, I used to think that as long as she was happy where she was, I was fine with that. But now she’s back, my feelings are starting to change. But that doesn’t mean that I want her to be unhappy. Ah, I’m such a jerk.”</p>
<p class="txt">Good grief. We weren’t going to make any progress this way. I gave up and asked him, “So, what do you want to ask me?”</p>
<p class="txt">“Huh? How did you know I wanted to ask you something?”</p>
<p class="txt">“I know. How much time have we spent together?”</p>
<p class="txt">“Ah, Takako, there’s no more wonderful niece in this world. I owe you.”</p>
<p class="txt">It was mostly what I expected, but my uncle wanted me to find out what Momoko was really thinking. Why had she come back now? And what did she plan to do next? He said that five years ago she’d left behind a two-line note: “I’m fine. Please don’t look for me.” She didn’t really take any bags with her. Since he hadn’t noticed any signs or advance warning that this was going to happen, he had no idea what was going to happen now.</p>
<p class="txt">He had mixed feelings about it, but after a lot of worrying, he ended up following the instructions in her note and didn’t look for her. He said he never even put in a missing person’s report to the police. “We were never blessed with children of our own,” he said, “and she took a liking to you, Takako. That’s why I think you’re the one she’ll talk to.” He added, “Thanks in advance!” at the end before he hung up.</p>
<p class="txt">Aunt Momoko had taken a liking to me? Even though we’d barely ever talked? It seemed pretty doubtful. People tend to find it embarrassing when an outsider intrudes on their marital problems. But after hearing him pleading with me, there was no way I could turn down my uncle. After all, I owed him everything.</p>

</body>
</html>