<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Chapter 3</title>
<meta content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:b852dd50-93f3-aac3-96bd-685618565092" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="ct" id="pt2ct3"><a href="004-Contents.xhtml#spt2sct3">3</a></p>
<p class="ftxt">“Let’s go inside,” Momoko said. “We’ve got a lot to talk about.”</p>
<p class="txt">At Momoko’s urging, the three of us stopped standing in front of the shop and went in. I hadn’t set foot inside the store in two months.</p>
<p class="txt">As usual, the shop was overflowing with books. When you walked, the wooden floorboards creaked beneath your feet. Dust drifted back and forth in the soft light of the setting sun streaming through the window. I took a deep breath and filled my lungs with that familiar scent.</p>
<p class="txt">I remembered the first time I walked into the shop—how my uncle laughed with embarrassment when I winced and said, “It smells musty.” Strange that now I loved that musty scent of old books so much I couldn’t get enough of it.</p>
<p class="txt">The three of us gathered around the counter, eating sweet taiyaki cakes. I had picked them up on the way as a little gift. Twice while we were eating, customers came into the shop. They looked rather startled to see us huddled together like a bunch of mice, and bought their books. Momoko handled the customers for my uncle, talking to them in a friendly way. After so many years as the wife of a bookseller, she had plenty of experience.</p>
<p class="txt">After we went inside, Momoko still did nearly all of the talking. But it was impossible to follow the way she veered from one thing to the next. She was like a plane in a tailspin.</p>
<p class="txt">“Takako, you lived here once? That’s just like me now, isn’t it? The AC doesn’t work at all so summer here must’ve been hot. Oh, the sweet filling in this taiyaki cake goes all the way through! It’s so good. Where’d you buy it? This neighborhood has changed since the old days. There are more fancy stores. Ugh, saying‘fancy’ makes me sound so middle-aged, doesn’t it?”</p>
<p class="txt">As she bounced from topic to topic, Momoko also, for some reason, occasionally reached out and pinched my uncle’s cheeks. She had pinched him so many times that both of his cheeks were already bright red.</p>
<p class="txt">It seemed so strange and surprising to me that I interrupted her and said, “Um, why were you just pinching his cheek?”</p>
<p class="txt">“Oh, was I pinching them?” Momoko asked, looking surprised. </p>
<p class="txt">“You definitely were.”</p>
<p class="txt">“It’s just an old habit of mine, pinching people. When I feel close to someone, I just find myself pinching them. Maybe it’s a way of showing affection. But wasn’t Satoru’s face kind of cute when I was pinching him?”</p>
<p class="txt">As she said this, Momoko pinched both of my uncle’s cheeks firmly, moving them up and down and side to side, as if this were some punishment in a children’s game. My uncle’s face looked so incredibly miserable. It wasn’t especially cute.</p>
<p class="txt">“Quit it . . .” My uncle cried out in pain, but he let her do it. He seemed used to it. You could hear in his voice that he had half resigned himself to it. His reaction made Momoko burst out laughing. Finally, she let him go. It seemed like Momoko had a hidden sadistic streak.</p>
<p class="txt">“Aren’t you embarrassed to do that in front of Takako?”</p>
<p class="txt">“What’s the big deal? She’s not a total stranger. She’s our niece.”</p>
<p class="txt">“We’re supposed to be adults. What about our dignity?” my uncle asked.</p>
<p class="txt">“Since when did you have any dignity?” Momoko hit back.</p>
<p class="txt"><i>If she and I become close, am I going to end up getting pinched too?</i> As I watched them banter, I shuddered at the thought.</p>
<p class="txt">Then Momoko jumped to another topic.</p>
<p class="txt">She suddenly grabbed hold of both my hands and fixed her gaze on me.</p>
<p class="txt">“But I’m so happy to see you. I used to think about you sometimes, you know. I’d wonder what had become of my sweet little niece. After all, you seemed like such a lovely young woman when you were in high school, so quiet and composed. And you looked so cute in your pageboy haircut.”</p>
<p class="txt">“Is that what you thought of me? I really wasn’t anything like that.” I was at a loss for words. Back then I was at the peak of puberty; I always felt like I was about to be crushed under the weight of all my frustrations, all these feelings I couldn’t express to others or process internally. I was in agony. It’s hard to believe that someone could have seen me so differently. The only reason I was so well-behaved at family gatherings was simply to avoid drawing any attention to myself.</p>
<p class="txt"><i>People’s impressions really aren’t very reliable, are they?</i> That’s what crossed my mind as Momoko was staring at me with a twinkle in her eye. I was wrong about so many things when it came to my uncle too. In the end, it doesn’t matter if you’re related by blood or if you spend years together in the same class at school or the same office; unless you really come face to face, you never really know someone at all. It was like that with Hideaki too. I couldn’t avoid the fact that I bore a lot of responsibility for what happened. It made me start thinking about all that again.</p>
<p class="txt">“So, Aunt Momoko, I get the sense that maybe my old image of you was pretty far off too,” I countered with a touch of irony. But Momoko gave a hearty laugh as if she didn’t mind at all.</p>
<p class="txt">“Well, at those family gatherings, I was playing the good girl too. Don’t you think a lot of the people in that family are a bit stiff? My father-in-law was definitely one of them. Come on, his facial expression never changed. You’d think he was wearing a Noh mask. Plus the fact that we’d run off and gotten married. Those family get-togethers were unbearable. When we showed up, everything got so tense. That’s why I was always tucked away in a corner, trying not to be noticed.”</p>
<p class="txt">“So that’s what it was like. And you still got married?”</p>
<p class="txt">“Well, we were living together at the time, so they still saw us as suspect. We met in Paris and fell in love, and as soon as we came back to Japan, they added my name to the family register. We just got caught up in the momentum, I guess.”</p>
<p class="txt">“Pa-Paris?” I cried. “Why Paris?”</p>
<p class="txt">“You didn’t know? I happened to be living in Paris then. He was traveling around on the cheap, and we used to run into each other sometimes at the used book stalls at the flea market. You’d think a guy from a family that owns a used bookshop wouldn’t need to go to bookshops when he was off traveling. Not this guy. Plus he had this bushy beard and dressed in rags, so he looked like a beggar.”</p>
<p class="txt">“That way you don’t end up getting targeted by pickpockets and muggers,” my uncle tried to explain, but Momoko didn’t pay him any attention.</p>
<p class="txt">“But once I started talking to him, he turned out to be a pretty interesting guy. A little dark, maybe, and not sure what to do with himself. The kind of person who needed looking after. Then I ended up thinking I might hang out with him a little bit . . .”</p>
<p class="txt">“Oh, really?”</p>
<p class="txt">At some point, I started to catch on to Momoko’s rapid narration. So the two of them met while my uncle was dealing with his issues by traveling around the world. Still, Paris was romantic. But what I couldn’t understand most of all was why Momoko was in Paris. I tried asking her, but she only said, “Oh, I was young, you know,” and did her best to dodge the question.</p>
<p class="txt">This woman is full of mysteries, I thought.</p>
<p class="txt">“Anyway, that’s how we met. We came back to Japan, got married, and everyone gave us the cold shoulder, but then his father fell ill, and Satoru decided to take over for him. After that we worked together desperately to show them all up.</p>
<p class="txt">“It never occurred to me to try and show them up,” my uncle interjected.</p>
<p class="txt">“Liar! You had all sorts of issues about your father! I figured that much out.”</p>
<p class="txt">My uncle did not make a sound. He just sat there looking dejected. She was his wife, but he didn’t seem to be much of a match for her. It was the first time I’d ever seen him like that; it was so funny I almost burst out laughing a few times.</p>
<p class="txt">And yet if you looked at it objectively, they actually seemed like a genuinely happy couple. As funny as it sounds, I even felt a little jealous of their relationship. The intimacy between them made them seem less like a married couple and more like old friends or comrades. It definitely put me at ease.</p>
<p class="txt">After a while, my uncle left, mumbling an excuse about how the store was busy, and Momoko pulled me upstairs to the room on the second floor. She suddenly leaned in close like she wanted to share something in secret.</p>
<p class="txt">“That’s why I want us to be friends, Takako.”</p>
<p class="txt">She took my hand and fixed her gaze on me again. Her hands were so small, I thought, like a child’s.</p>
<p class="txt">“Ah . . .”</p>
<p class="txt">“It’s not fair that you’re only close with Satoru. I want you and I to be close too. Does that sound good to you?”</p>
<p class="txt">“Ah . . . yes . . .” I nodded to her, but in my head I grumbled, <i>This isn’t going to be easy.</i></p>

</body>
</html>