<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Chapter 6</title>
<meta content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:b852dd50-93f3-aac3-96bd-685618565092" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="ct" id="pt2ct6"><a href="004-Contents.xhtml#spt2sct6">6</a></p>
<p class="ftxt">“Why do you have to go on a trip with her?”</p>
<p class="txt">The night before we were to leave, I got a call from my uncle. I was working at the office, the last person still there. He said he’d just heard from Momoko about the trip. “I asked you to find out what was going on with her,” he said, sounding disconcerted, “but you didn’t have to go this far.”</p>
<p class="txt">“It just sort of happened as we were talking,” I responded vaguely. I wasn’t feeling able at that particular moment to explain exactly how it happened.</p>
<p class="txt">“Knowing her, I bet she just forced you to go along with her,” my uncle said, sounding worried.</p>
<p class="txt">“No, it wasn’t like that.”</p>
<p class="txt">“I don’t know,” my uncle said, still worrying.</p>
<p class="txt">“I’ll bring you home a present,” I said cheerfully.</p>
<p class="txt">“If you’re okay with it, Takako, that’s good enough for me, I guess,” he said, reluctantly conceding. “By the way, Sabu keeps storming into the shop and saying he wants to see Momoko. What the hell’s going on?”</p>
<p class="txt">I remembered the little drama at the Saveur and laughed out loud.</p>
<p class="txt">“He seems to want to have a word with her.”</p>
<p class="txt">“What?” I could hear my uncle’s astonishment on the other end of the phone. “Momoko will roll right over him, and then she’ll flatter him and he’ll end up going home happy. She’s weirdly good at dealing with guys like him.”</p>
<p class="txt">I could see the whole scene vividly in my mind. </p>
<p class="txt">“I think you’re right.”</p>
<p class="txt">“No doubt about it. But Momoko mostly goes out around lunchtime, so she isn’t here when Sabu comes, which makes him angry.”</p>
<p class="txt">“Is that right?”</p>
<p class="txt">“And even if I subtly try to ask her where she’s going, she won’t tell me.”</p>
<p class="txt">It was my turn to be astonished. “Because she’s not a child,” I said. “As long as she comes back afterward, does it really matter?”</p>
<p class="txt">“I guess that’s true . . . Anyway, you don’t have to go on this trip if you don’t want to. I don’t know why she asked you . . .” he went on muttering and then he finally hung up.</p>
<p class="ftxt"> </p>
<p class="ftxt"><i>That night, after</i> finishing work, I decided to drop by the Saveur again. By the time I left the office, it was already after nine, and I didn’t feel like going home, so I ended up there. The place was still crowded. Wada’s usual spot by the window was occupied by two girls.</p>
<p class="txt">I found a seat at a table and read slowly from the book I bought for my trip—<i>Friendship</i> by Saneatsu Mushanokōji—but I couldn’t really concentrate. Although I didn’t mean to, every time someone came into the coffee shop, I’d find myself looking toward the door, thinking it might be Wada.</p>
<p class="txt">I had only managed to make it through about twenty pages when Wada showed up for real. I greeted him with a slight bow, feeling flustered, and he came slowly over to where I was sitting. Seeing him from that distance, I got a strange feeling. He seemed less lively than usual.</p>
<p class="txt">I waited until he had taken a seat before I asked any questions. “Have you been busy at work?”</p>
<p class="txt">“No, on the contrary, things have been slow.” Wada smiled as he said it, but his face showed how tired he was.</p>
<p class="txt">We both fell silent for a moment. Normally, I wouldn’t worry about a moment of silence between us, but for some reason, I felt a heaviness in the air. I thought of what Takano had said, and then it got even harder to make conversation.</p>
<p class="txt">“That reminds me . . .” I said with a smile, remembering something good to tell him.“I read <i>Up the Hill</i>.”</p>
<p class="txt">But Wada didn’t seem to take much of an interest.“Oh, is that right?” he mumbled. I’d selfishly expected he would be happy to hear this. I felt dejected that my expectations were so far off the mark.</p>
<p class="txt">“The story is a bit of a cliché, don’t you think?” Wada said with a touch of irony.</p>
<p class="txt">“No way. I loved the book.”</p>
<p class="txt">“But the whole idea of waiting for someone you love till the day you die. That kind of thing never happens in the real world.”</p>
<p class="txt">“Is that right?”</p>
<p class="txt">“At least that’s what I think. Instead, the person you love just comes out and tells you you’re being creepy.”</p>
<p class="txt">“Huh?” I had no idea what he was talking about. But Wada went on speaking in fits and starts.</p>
<p class="txt">“When she and I first met, I brought her here. She liked the place, so after that day, she and I came here a lot. That’s why I told her I’m still waiting for her here. ‘If you change your mind,’ I said, ‘come look for me here.’ Well, the day before yesterday, she sends me an email making herself perfectly clear: ‘You’re being creepy. Stop.’ ”</p>
<p class="txt">At this point, I’d heard enough to understand what he’d meant earlier. <i>So that’s what’s been going on. If only he’d told me sooner. No, but why would he tell me?</i></p>
<p class="txt">He’d been waiting all this time—waiting for the beautiful woman he used to bring to the bookshop. He was just like Matsugorō waiting for Ukiyō. Or rather, was that why he transferred all those emotions to the novel and kept reading it over and over? </p>
<p class="txt"><i>Oh, what the hell.</i> I kept repeating the words to myself again and again. It’s not that I was particularly sad. Somehow deep down I’d always had the feeling that he didn’t think of me like that. I just felt like a complete idiot for letting myself get so worked up over everything.</p>
<p class="txt">What about the weird way we could talk and talk? Or the way we felt like old friends? None of that was real. Wada was kind enough to listen to me, and I took advantage of that and talked about myself. That’s what really made me feel good. I felt so guilty when I finally realized this.</p>
<p class="txt">“I’m sorry. It’s not a very interesting story,” Wada said apologetically, perhaps because he’d noticed that I’d been looking down all this time.</p>
<p class="txt">I shook my head.“No, I’m the one who should apologize.”</p>
<p class="txt">“What? Why should you apologize, Takako?” Wada seemed surprised.</p>
<p class="txt">“Just because.”</p>
<p class="txt">“Huh?”</p>
<p class="txt">I really wanted to apologize more, but I also didn’t want him to think I was weird, so I held back. I’ve got to change the subject, I thought, but I also felt the urge to ask more bubbling up inside me.</p>
<p class="txt">“You loved her, didn’t you?” I blurted out, and then immediately regretted it.</p>
<p class="txt">Wada smiled a little.</p>
<p class="txt">“I hate to admit how childish the whole thing was. But, you know, I can understand it too. At first, she and I didn’t seem to have anything in common. There was no way for things to work out between us. But it’s like I was stubborn about it. I fell in love with her. And for some reason I could never just see that we were too different and we’d be better off ending things. I’ve always thought of myself as a rather sober person, but I discovered I have a passionate side. It came as a bit of a surprise.”</p>
<p class="txt">He could’ve skipped the analysis at this point<i>.</i> I guess he was a little weird after all.</p>
<p class="txt">“I think you’re a good person,” I said, trying to cheer him up. I wish I could’ve come up with something better to say, but nothing else came to mind. I meant it sincerely though. Wada was a really good person.</p>
<p class="txt">“Thank you. If you say so, I must be a decent human being. That much is true,” he said, laughing softly.“But I got told, ‘You’re a good person, but you’re not interesting.’ ”</p>
<p class="txt">“Don’t you think she was being a bit cruel?” I said. I was getting a little angry at this woman. I felt like she couldn’t recognize the goodness in him.</p>
<p class="txt">“No,” Wada said. “Because I agree with her. So much so that I was actually impressed by how well she’d hit the nail on the head. But this is a boring subject, let’s drop it.” Wada tried to change the subject and get me to open up by asking how I’d been recently. But I was still feeling hurt, and I couldn’t contribute to the conversation.</p>
<p class="txt">“Sorry, I’ve got an early start tomorrow . . .” The conversation never seemed to get any more cheerful. I kept it going a little longer and then I excused myself and got up.</p>
<p class="txt">“Oh really?” Wada looked at me a little blankly.</p>
<p class="txt">When I tried to leave, the owner called out from near the door. “Are you going home, Takako?”</p>
<p class="txt">“Yes” was all I said before I walked out.</p>
<p class="txt">I was in a dark mood. The owner must’ve realized it too. I didn’t feel much like coming back for a while.</p>
<p class="txt">As I walked, I felt more and more depressed. I must’ve sighed about thirty times. By the time I realized that I’d forgotten my book on the table, I was already on the train home.</p>

</body>
</html>