<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Chapter 7</title>
<meta content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:b852dd50-93f3-aac3-96bd-685618565092" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="ct" id="pt2ct7"><a href="004-Contents.xhtml#spt2sct7">7</a></p>
<p class="ftxt">I met up with Momoko at Shinjuku Station at ten.</p>
<p class="txt">It was cloudy, but according to the weather forecast on TV, the sky was going to clear up in the afternoon.</p>
<p class="txt">I was using up my vacation days to go on this trip, so before I left home, I tried to give myself a pep talk: <i>Don’t let last night drag you down</i>.</p>
<p class="txt">Momoko showed up at the jam-packed south entrance of Shinjuku Station, carrying so little—just a backpack that could’ve been mistaken for a child’s—you would’ve never guessed she was leaving on a trip. Her hair was tied back in a bun, and she wore a green hoodie and black tracksuit pants. She was so small that from a distance, she looked like a schoolgirl on a field trip.</p>
<p class="txt">When Momoko saw my outfit, she furrowed her brow. “Oh my,” she said, “you’re not dressed like someone who’s going to the mountains, are you?” This was my first trip in a long time, and I was decked out in a dress I’d just bought on sale.</p>
<p class="txt">“I did put on sneakers though,” I said, trying to explain myself. “And I have some proper hiking clothes in my bag.”</p>
<p class="txt">“You didn’t need to pack so much,” Momoko said.</p>
<p class="txt">That shut me up. I was embarrassed by how much I’d been looking forward to the trip. Perhaps to make up for what she’d said, Momoko added, “I guess that’s just what it’s like being young. You’re always carrying around a lot of luggage.”</p>
<p class="txt">“And when you’re old, you have less?” I countered.</p>
<p class="txt">“It’s fine for you, Takako. I just don’t like anything weighing me down,” she said dryly.</p>
<p class="txt">“That makes sense,” I said, convinced.</p>
<p class="txt">“Anyway, thank you for coming. Here’s to a good three-day trip,” Momoko said. She straightened her posture and bowed theatrically.</p>
<p class="txt">“I should be the one thanking you,” I said, bowing.</p>
<p class="txt">We took the Chūō line from Shinjuku, and changed to the Ōme line at Tachikawa Station. In the roughly five years since I’d moved to Tokyo, this was my first time heading that way. The train cars on the Ōme line were fairly empty. Sitting in the seats across from us was a high school student, a bit of a bad boy type, who looked like he’d overslept. He sat there with a sullen expression on his face, restlessly tapping his foot. He looked angry at the whole world.</p>
<p class="txt">Momoko took her seat and stared out the window, humming to herself. The night before I’d been up till dawn, thinking of one thing or another, none of it very interesting. Once I settled in on the train, I was asleep before I knew it.</p>
<p class="txt">When I woke up a little while later, the bad boy high schooler was long gone. He’d probably gone to school angry.</p>
<p class="txt">I glanced out the window, and I saw that at some point the clouds had disappeared and blue sky now stretched into the distance. There were far fewer houses and buildings, and the mountains in the distance beyond the farmland and rice paddies were growing bigger and bigger.</p>
<p class="txt">“Amazing,” I said, rubbing my eyes.</p>
<p class="txt">“Just wait till you see what’s next,” Momoko said with a grin.</p>
<p class="txt">We got off the train at a little station called Mitake. The mountains were right in front of us now, with the blue sky behind them, and in the center of it all was an enormous mountain that towered over everything else. It was a majestic, massive mountain—it was not going to budge one bit. The leaves hadn’t really started to change color yet for fall, so the mountain was still a deep green. Somewhere up there was the inn we were heading to.</p>
<p class="txt">“We’re not far from the center of the city, but it feels like we’ve gone a really long way,” I muttered, looking at the scenery in front of me. I took a deep breath and filled my lungs with fresh, clean air. It was impressive to see how much nature was still left within the city limits.</p>
<p class="txt">“It only took a few decades for the city to fill up with all those buildings,” Momoko said.</p>
<p class="txt">It made me think of the short story “Musashino” in one of Doppo Kunikida’s books. At the beginning of the twentieth century, when Doppo was alive, the area around Musashino was still so wild you could lose yourself inside it. These days it’s just another neighborhood in Tokyo. The times change so quickly. It was enough to leave you dizzy.</p>
<p class="txt">At the little stop in front of the station, we caught a bus that took us on the highway to the starting point of the funicular, halfway up the mountain. By the time we got to the bus stop, two tour groups that had probably arrived on the same train as us had already taken their seats. Both were groups of elderly men and women. It was a mystery though what had brought them all here together. We gave a quick bow and sat down next to them. The oldest-looking woman in the group smiled and said, “On a little mother-daughter trip?”</p>
<p class="txt">“Yes,” Momoko said, smiling back.</p>
<p class="txt">We’re not mother and daughter, I thought, but it was too much trouble to explain our relationship, so I nodded and let the expression on my face say, <i>That’s my mom, and I’m her daughter</i>. </p>
<p class="txt">As soon as we got on the bus, three grade-school-age boys started talking to us. They were apparently quite used to tourists because they didn’t seem the slightest bit shy. Momoko seemed to like kids. She gave them a big smile and started happily chatting with them.“What grade are you guys in?” she asked. </p>
<p class="txt">“First!” they answered in unison, full of enthusiasm.</p>
<p class="txt">They told us their families ran inns up on the mountain, so they had to come down the mountain every day to go to school. </p>
<p class="txt">“That must be hard,” I said, which was probably what tourists always said to them.</p>
<p class="txt">“I suppose,” one replied, sounding quite grown-up. It was like he was saying, “Oh, <i>now</i> you tell me.”</p>
<p class="txt">“Come on, come on!” they shouted. Letting the kids lead us, we got off the bus and climbed the mountain road to the funicular station. The kids were running fast, and I quickly ended up a little out of breath as I brought up the rear. Momoko turned around and looked at me.</p>
<p class="txt">“Takako, you know the real climbing doesn’t start until after the funicular. If you’re already tired, I don’t know what we’re going to do with you,” she teased.</p>
<p class="txt">The kids burst out laughing.“Lady, you’re never going to make it. This is what happens when you grow up in the city,” one said, and they laughed again.</p>
<p class="txt">“Actually, I grew up way out in the country in Kyushu,” I said, trying to argue the point from the back, but they were going so quickly and I had fallen so far behind that no one seemed to hear me. Why was Momoko in such great shape? The age difference between us was enough for people to mistake us for mother and daughter. I was starting to regret that I hadn’t packed lighter.</p>
<p class="txt">When I finally made it to the base of the funicular, Momoko handed me a bottle of tea she’d bought at a gift shop. “Here you go,” she said.</p>
<p class="txt">I accepted gratefully and gulped it all down.</p>
<p class="ftxt"> </p>
<p class="ftxt"><i>The funicular took</i> us up the mountain like the tracks were running along a stream. It dropped us off just before the summit. Then we waved goodbye to the kids and began to trudge uphill again. We’d already made it to nearly one thousand meters above sea level. It was hard to believe that just an hour ago we’d been at the foot of the mountain.</p>
<p class="txt">Along the narrow road that led to the peak were signs with advertisements and directions for each inn. “Our inn is the farthest, so it’s going to take forty minutes,” Momoko said casually.</p>
<p class="txt">“What?” I whined.</p>
<p class="txt">“But the view is incredible,” she said, and pinched my cheek.</p>
<p class="txt">More stairs and steep slopes followed. There was only one little store and a single rest stop. Everything else was either a mountain inn or a private residence. Each time someone coming down from the peak passed us, they greeted us with a cheerful “Hello!”</p>
<p class="txt">And each time, Momoko and I answered back enthusiastically, “Hello!”</p>
<p class="txt">The overwhelming majority of the people we saw were elderly, but there were some young couples and large groups of what looked like college students. I felt a tiny bit relieved to see that most of the young people were dressed in normal clothes like I was.</p>
<p class="txt">Finally, the inn we’d been looking for came into view. At this point, I was completely out of breath. Momoko seemed to be feeling the strain a bit too. “We made it. We made it,” she said, sighing as she wiped the sweat from her forehead with a towel.</p>
<p class="txt">The wooden building looked pretty worn down. It had three floors that seemed to be joined to a private home. The back of the building was right up against the cliff. In the large yard out front, someone had left out a tractor, a rusty bicycle, and some logs. The place had a very lived-in look. To put it nicely, I guess you could call it unpretentious. To put it not so nicely, it was a dump. But I had trouble imagining Momoko staying at some neat little inn. So I took one look and thought, This looks great.</p>
<p class="txt">“Is anyone there?” Momoko opened the door and yelled inside. After a moment, we heard the sound of someone running down the hall, and a young girl appeared.</p>
<p class="txt">She was dressed in loose jeans and a sweatshirt that was clearly too big for her. She looked about twenty years old.</p>
<p class="txt">The girl looked at Momoko and spoke so bluntly you never would’ve guessed she was talking to a guest.“Hey, is that Momoko?”</p>
<p class="txt">“It’s been a while, Haru. How’ve you been?” Momoko replied.</p>
<p class="txt">“Who’s this? She your daughter? Wait, you have children?”</p>
<p class="txt">“I’m her niece, Takako,” I said, introducing myself to Haru before Momoko could tell another person I was her daughter.</p>
<p class="txt">Haru might be a little bit rough around the edges, but she didn’t seem particularly mean-spirited.</p>
<p class="txt">“Nice to meet you,” she said, and gave a quick bow in my direction.</p>
<p class="txt">We heard footsteps from inside again. This time a woman in her fifties came slowly walking toward us, dressed in an apron coverall and a headscarf.</p>
<p class="txt">“Ah, Momoko, you’re early,” the woman said with a friendly smile. She had a brisk way of talking, but you could sense that she was someone who liked taking care of people.</p>
<p class="txt">“It’s nice to see you again,” Momoko said, and bowed properly. I realized the woman in the apron was the innkeeper.</p>
<p class="txt">“Hey, Momoko,” Haru said, “you gonna work here again?”</p>
<p class="txt">“No, Haru. Momoko came as a guest today.”</p>
<p class="txt">“Oh no, really?”</p>
<p class="txt">Seeing me marvel at this back-and-forth, Momoko whispered in my ear.“When I left Satoru’s, I moved up here for a little while and the innkeeper gave me a job.”</p>
<p class="txt">“So that’s what happened?” I said, raising my voice in surprise. </p>
<p class="txt">“Basically,” she replied nonchalantly.</p>
<p class="txt">The innkeeper led us to our room. It was only just after 2 p.m., so we were the first guests of the day. The inside of the building was just as messy as the outside. There was stuff everywhere. In the hallway, someone had left an empty aquarium, a huge pile of magazines, an old TV, and an acoustic guitar. When I snuck a peek at the kitchen next to the entryway, it looked pretty chaotic. Same for the toilets, the washroom, and the bath. It felt more like a boardinghouse than an inn. During summer vacation, it was probably filled with students. I don’t know whether the other inns on the mountain were similar, but in this inn, the atmosphere was extremely casual.</p>
<p class="txt">She led us to a room at the far corner because it had the best view. It was about ten tatami mats large, the perfect size for the two of us.</p>
<p class="txt">Outside the window, we were surrounded by dense green foliage. The trees swayed gently in the breeze. Now and then we heard a bird call that might have been a thrush. The mountains in the distance were shrouded in mist. Up above, drifting slowly across the aqua-blue sky, was a group of little, dappled clouds that looked like a school of fish. As I stared at the view, I felt myself losing all sense of time.</p>
<p class="txt">I sat by the window for a while, gazing at the scenery. Beside me, Momoko was unusually quiet as she looked at the view, perhaps overcome by the same emotions. I tried to imagine what it must’ve been like to live and work in a place like this. I surprised myself when I realized I might enjoy it.</p>
<p class="txt">Then there was a forceful knocking at the door, and Haru came in.“It’s already getting really cold at night,” she said, carrying a heavy-looking stove in both hands. She put it down with a thud in a corner of the room.</p>
<p class="txt">“Thanks,” I said.</p>
<p class="txt">“Yup, enjoy!” she replied on her way out, sounding more like a waitress at a bar.</p>
<p class="txt">“Momoko, how long did you work here?” I asked.</p>
<p class="txt">She cocked her head to one side to think. Then she said, “About three years, I guess.”</p>
<p class="txt">“What did you do after that?”</p>
<p class="txt">“Well, all sorts of stuff. People can live anywhere if they put their mind to it.”</p>
<p class="txt">That was definitely true in her case. She seemed fierce enough to live anywhere.</p>
<p class="txt">“Well,” she said, jumping to her feet. “Shall we go out for a bit before dinner?”</p>
<p class="txt">We were going to leave the real hiking for the next day, and so we decided to pay our respects to the shrine up the mountain. Momoko said the shrine was just a stone’s throw from the inn, and it would take us less than five minutes to get there. When we passed the little corner with its modest gift shop and restaurant, the large torii gate of the shrine appeared before us. We gave a quick bow at the gate and followed a group of people onto the grounds.</p>
<p class="txt">The shrine was much nicer than I expected it to be. We passed one sanctuary and treasure hall after another. On the path leading to the main shrine, countless stone monuments crowded side by side. I read a sign that explained its history, and it said the original shrine had been constructed in this location more than 1,200 years ago in the Nara period. From the Middle Ages, the site was considered one of the sacred mountains in the region. Worshippers had flocked to the mountain for centuries.</p>
<p class="txt">I was shocked to discover that it had been around for so long. For hundreds of years, so many had made the same trek to visit this shrine. There was no transportation then, so the walk must’ve taken days or even weeks. It must’ve meant even more to them than it did to us today. I felt humbled by my lack of faith.</p>
<p class="txt">We climbed the steep stone steps to get to the main shrine. There were bright purple blossoms in the wild gentian growing along the route. The stairs seemed to go on forever, and we struggled to make it up to the shrine. The other tourists were breathing hard as they climbed the steps. When we finally stood in front of the hall of worship, I struggled to catch my breath again.</p>
<p class="txt">I somehow pulled myself together, and we threw our coins into the collection box and pressed our hands together in prayer.</p>
<p class="txt">I looked over at Momoko when I was done, but she was still praying. The expression on her face was extremely serious.</p>
<p class="txt">When she opened her eyes again, I asked, “What are you praying for?”</p>
<p class="txt">“Nothing.”</p>
<p class="txt">“But it looked like you were praying with such intensity.”</p>
<p class="txt">“A shrine isn’t where you pray for something. It’s a place for you to express gratitude. It’s for you to tell the gods, ‘Thank you for always watching over me.’ ”</p>
<p class="txt">“Oh, I just asked for something, um, fervently.”</p>
<p class="txt">“What did you ask for?”</p>
<p class="txt">“You know, good health, and that I don’t go broke.”</p>
<p class="txt">Momoko laughed, saying that sounded a lot like me. We did a loop around the grounds of the shrine to look around. Then she said, “When I first left Satoru, I wandered to this shrine. That’s how I ended up asking if I could stay at that inn. I didn’t have anyone else to turn to, so I asked the innkeeper if I could move in and work there. It turned out that she was actually short-handed at the time. She had just lost her husband, and she didn’t have Haru yet. But even so, for her to hire a strange middle-aged woman . . . It was really generous of her.”</p>
<p class="txt">She likes to talk about herself in the third person, I thought, weirdly impressed.</p>
<p class="txt">Before we left, we stood together and bowed again. The main shrine was shining beautifully in the setting sun. Then we went back down the steep path to the inn.</p>
<p class="txt">I took a bath to wash away all the sweat. While I was lying around on my futon waiting for Momoko to finish her bath, I was overcome by drowsiness again. When Momoko shook me awake, it was already well past dinnertime.</p>
<p class="txt">While I was in dreamland, two other groups of guests had come to the hotel. We all met in the dining hall. One group was composed of three generations of the same family. The other was a pair of middle-aged men. The men were already a little drunk. When we came into the room, they greeted us by shouting, “Sorry, we started without you!” Their voices were ridiculously loud.</p>
<p class="txt">There was so much to eat at dinner that it was overwhelming. The innkeeper kept bringing one thing after another. Simmered dishes, fermented soybeans, pickled scallions, kimchi—there were so many different little sides. She even made a hot pot and tempura.</p>
<p class="txt">The most delicious dish of all was the ayu sweetfish grilled with miso. After eating that with rice and miso soup, I was full, so I gave my hot pot and tempura to the men. Thanks to the relaxed atmosphere at the inn, there was an unusually festive feeling in the dining hall. The men were both interested in mountain climbing, and they had been to this mountain many times. As blind drunk as they were, they still took the time to tell us all their recommendations for places to visit. I would’ve liked to have seen the spots where the violets and false anemones grew, but it was too late in the year.</p>
<p class="txt">The family said they’d come for a little trip, just to be together as a family before the grandson’s wedding. The grandmother was now somewhere between eighty-seven and eighty-nine. (The question of her exact age provoked a brief dispute.) They had to push her wheelchair the whole way from the funicular station to the inn.</p>
<p class="txt">“This is my last trip,” the grandmother murmured.</p>
<p class="txt">“What! You’re still so young. You’ve still got time for lots of trips!” Momoko insisted, looking quite happy.</p>
<p class="txt">Later, after the two other groups went upstairs, Momoko launched into a nonstop conversation with the innkeeper, so I went up to the room ahead of her.</p>
<p class="txt">When I got back to our room, I thought about what Momoko had been like all day, and came to the conclusion that all my worries about the trip had been in my head. She seemed so happy. She was the same cheerful person she always was. She’d probably just been nostalgic for the place where she used to work. </p>
<p class="txt">I’d come all this way with the wrong idea. Just like with Hideaki. I was someone who took a long time to figure things out. But maybe it didn’t matter. I was enjoying myself. That’s what I thought as I waited for Momoko.</p>
<p class="ftxt"> </p>
<p class="ftxt"><i>When Momoko came</i> back to the room, she said, “We’ve got an early start tomorrow. Let’s go to bed,” and quickly got under the covers.</p>
<p class="txt">But having foolishly taken two naps that day, I couldn’t fall asleep.</p>
<p class="txt">Momoko was asleep within three minutes of getting into bed. I could hear her breathing peacefully (with the occasional bout of snoring).</p>
<p class="txt">As I lay there, I was sorry I’d forgotten my book at the Saveur—not that those regrets did me any good now. Then, at the same moment, Wada’s face appeared in my mind.</p>
<p class="txt"><i>I wonder what he’s doing right now</i>. <i>Probably sleeping. And here I am spending a sleepless night in a strange place. We might not be far from home, but I feel lonely. I really miss him</i>. <i>It wouldn’t have killed me to have asked him for his number. Now I might never see him again. He doesn’t have any more reason to go to the coffee shop. It hurts to realize that it might be too late now for anything but regret.</i></p>
<p class="txt">The more I thought about it, the more awake I felt, so I quietly snuck out of the room. The whole inn was asleep. But then I saw a light coming from the sliding door of the little room at the end of the hall. Tiptoeing over and sneaking a peek inside, I saw Haru sitting with her legs crossed in front of a desk, scowling at the computer screen. She had the same intense expression on her face that Momoko had when she was praying at the temple.</p>
<p class="txt">When I tried to tiptoe away, she noticed me and called out absentmindedly “What’s up? Something happen?”</p>
<p class="txt">“I just couldn’t sleep,” I said.</p>
<p class="txt">“In that case, maybe you should go for a walk. It’s a clear night, the stars should be pretty.” She gestured toward the entrance with her chin.</p>
<p class="txt">“Maybe I will,” I said.</p>
<p class="txt">As I was about to walk out the door, I heard, “Wait a sec. It’s pitch black out there and it’s dangerous for a girl to be all alone.” Haru came after me with a flashlight in her hand.</p>
<p class="txt">We quietly opened the front door and went into the yard.</p>
<p class="txt">Because of the high altitude, we could see our breath even though it was still only the middle of October. When I looked up at the sky, the stars seemed so much closer than usual. There were winter constellations that we wouldn’t have seen in the city. Across from the cliffs, they were twinkling over the rolling mountains.</p>
<p class="txt">We walked slowly together toward the shrine. Everyone was asleep. There wasn’t a single room with a light on. The only noise was the satisfying clip-clop sound of our sandals.</p>
<p class="txt">“I’m sorry I dragged you along on this.”</p>
<p class="txt">“No worries. I was just looking at something online.” Haru took a cigarette from her pocket, put it in her mouth, and lit it. Then she stood there looking out at the darkness, exhaling smoke.</p>
<p class="txt">“When did you start working here, Haru?”</p>
<p class="txt">“Since I graduated high school. The boss is one of my relatives.”</p>
<p class="txt">“Is that right?”</p>
<p class="txt">“Pretty much everybody here’s like that. They run the inn with their families and relatives. Beyond that, the local high school kids come to work part-time when they’re on break. People like Momoko are pretty unusual.”</p>
<p class="txt">“Is the job fun?”</p>
<p class="txt">“Hard to say. This is the only job I’ve ever had. It gets pretty busy when the students are here. But this time of year can be a little lonely. Why are you traveling together? You don’t seem that close.” Haru asked the question without seeming to have any special interest in the answer.</p>
<p class="txt">“I don’t really know. Before we left, I had the feeling there was something she wanted to tell me, but now it seems like that was just in my head.”</p>
<p class="txt">“Hmmm . . . Now that you mention it though, back when she was working here, she was in a much darker mood. Seeing her again now, I was kind of surprised to see how cheerful she was.”</p>
<p class="txt">“Really?”</p>
<p class="txt">“Yeah. In her later days here, she was more upbeat, maybe, but when I first started here, she hardly ever talked. She kinda scared me.”</p>
<p class="txt">I tried to envision Momoko being like that, but I really couldn’t do it.</p>
<p class="txt">“I don’t get it, I guess,” she said, and threw her cigarette in the ashtray that had been installed right in front of the torii gate of the shrine.</p>
<p class="txt">A shooting star streaked across the night sky and disappeared. At which point, Haru let out a single, massive sneeze. </p>
<p class="txt">“Should we head back?” I asked.</p>
<p class="txt">Haru sniffled and said, “Sure.”</p>

</body>
</html>