<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Chapter 8</title>
<meta content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:b852dd50-93f3-aac3-96bd-685618565092" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="ct" id="pt2ct8"><a href="004-Contents.xhtml#spt2sct8">8</a></p>
<p class="ftxt">The next morning, I couldn’t seem to muster the energy to get out from under the covers of my futon. I just lay there dawdling. Momoko tried to rip the covers off me a few times, but I held on tight and fought her tooth and nail.</p>
<p class="txt">It was after nine when I finally got up, washed my face, and wandered the inn in search of her.</p>
<p class="txt">“She’s got to be in the yard,” the innkeeper told me, trying to keep from laughing.</p>
<p class="txt">When I went outside, I saw Momoko standing in the middle of the yard, drenched in morning light. She was still wearing her yukata from last night, but she was in a funny pose.</p>
<p class="txt">“What’re you doing?” I asked.</p>
<p class="txt">“Tai Chi,” she said. She told me it had been a morning routine for years. “It’s really good for your health. Plus it makes you feel good. You want to try it with me, sleepyhead?”</p>
<p class="txt">Was she doing it every morning at the bookshop? I’m sure the sight of a middle-aged woman doing Tai Chi in front of a second-hand bookstore surprised the businessmen on their way to work. Just imagining it made me almost burst out laughing.</p>
<p class="txt">After finishing breakfast, Momoko and I finally left for our hike. Today I was fully prepared, wearing clothes it was much easier to move in. All of the other guests seemed to have started off long before us. When I told Momoko we still had plenty of time, she turned and gave me an icy glare.</p>
<p class="txt">As we left the inn, the innkeeper called after us, “See you soon!”</p>
<p class="txt">If you went over two mountains on the trail, you’d make it to an overlook with an amazing view. That’s where we were headed. </p>
<p class="txt">It was nice and cold in the mountains. We were surrounded by cedars, some of them five times my size. When I stopped to have a look at the pretty wildflowers growing here and there along the way, Momoko would point at each and tell me its name. She had only lived here for a few years, but still she knew quite a lot about life here. I, on the other hand, had not been hiking since a summer program in grade school. It was fun to walk in the mountains with such a knowledgeable guide. I didn’t have to worry about getting lost. Feeling a little better, I started to hum a song we sang on the weekend trip, “The Bear in the Woods.”</p>
<p class="txt">But this was only at the very beginning of the hike. After that, I wasn’t singing songs anymore. The path, which was flat and wide at first, gradually grew narrower and steeper. It’s like it was telling me, “This mountain doesn’t mess around.” Soon it was hard to find your footing, and I was afraid that if I stopped paying attention for a moment, my feet would slip. One minute, I was blithely singing, “And this is what the bear said!” The next, I felt like I was trapped in a bottomless pit, too uncoordinated to find my way out.</p>
<p class="txt">But Momoko didn’t seem to think the path was bad at all. She kept going, nimbly making her way, showing no mercy. When the distance between us grew too wide, she would stop and wait for me to catch up.</p>
<p class="txt">“Hey, um, Miss Mountain Guide, can we slow down a bit?” I grumbled, around the time we had just passed the gigantic boulder known as Tengu Rock, because it looked a little like that mythical creature with the long nose.</p>
<p class="txt">“I wonder whose fault it is that we don’t have much time? If we don’t hurry now, the sun will set on our way home. And it gets pitch black at night in the mountains, you know,” Momoko said curtly.</p>
<p class="txt">I didn’t have a response for that.</p>
<p class="txt">“We’ll take a little break a little farther ahead. Keep it up a bit longer,” Momoko said to encourage me. Then she walked on briskly.</p>
<p class="txt">It was after midday when we finally took a brief rest beside a clear mountain stream. We divided up the onigiri the innkeeper had packed for us, so we each had two. Listening to the soothing sound of water in the dappled light that streamed through the trees eased my weariness a little. I took several deep breaths of that pure mountain air, trying to catch my breath. Momoko still seemed perfectly well composed. She had a placid expression on her face as she bit into her onigiri.</p>
<p class="txt">“Momoko, you’re really in good shape.”</p>
<p class="txt">“Takako, as young as you are, you really have no endurance.”</p>
<p class="txt">I laughed, and teased her a little. “Momoko, you’ll probably be in great shape even when you’re that old lady’s age.”</p>
<p class="txt">Momoko laughed. “Honestly, it doesn’t look like it’s going to turn out that way. I’m sick. And pretty soon I’ll start to fall apart.”</p>
<p class="txt">“What?” I said.</p>
<p class="txt">“Okay, break’s over. Just a little farther to go,” she said, sounding all fired up as she walked away.</p>
<p class="txt">Sick? How could Momoko be sick? She doesn’t look sick at all . . .</p>
<p class="txt">Momoko turned back and saw me still standing there. “If you don’t get a move on,” she called, “I’ll leave you behind!” She looked so small at this distance from behind. I rushed to chase after her.</p>
<p class="ftxt"> </p>
<p class="ftxt"><i>After that, we</i> devoted our attention to hiking and hardly exchanged a word.</p>
<p class="txt">At one point, we went down a rugged slope that was just bare rock, then circled halfway around the mountain, and went up another slope. We went up and down, again and again, on our route. My poor feet were screaming in pain.</p>
<p class="txt">Then, all of sudden, the sky opened up before us, and the summit came into view. On the peak, the viewing platform looked sort of like a flan resting on a plate. There were a few pines scattered around an expanse of reddish-brown earth. Ahead of us was the steep drop-off of the cliff. The only other visitor was a middle-aged man, sitting on a bench mounted right next to the edge of the cliff. Everything around was quiet and calm. We sat down together on the bench across from the man. The gentle breeze, coming straight at us, began to cool our burning muscles. </p>
<p class="txt">The view from the mountaintop was definitely impressive. We were surrounded by green as far as the eye could see. Everywhere you looked there were mountain peaks pressing up against each other. And the sky felt unbelievably close. So endless and clear. If I stared at it too long, I felt like it might swallow me whole.</p>
<p class="txt">When I squinted, I could just make out the city of Tokyo. It was so small it looked like a little speck in the distance. I tried to imagine that tomorrow I’d be back living my life again in that little speck, but here on the mountain I couldn’t believe that life was real. Wouldn’t it be better to just stay here and live like this? It felt like it. I wondered if Momoko had the same thoughts the first time she came here.</p>
<p class="txt">“Hey, Momoko?”</p>
<p class="txt">“Yeah?”</p>
<p class="txt">“What made you decide to leave Satoru?”</p>
<p class="txt">I wasn’t asking because my uncle wanted me to. I just wanted to ask her. And this time I hoped Momoko would actually answer me. All of a sudden it felt like she would.</p>
<p class="txt">“Hmmm . . .” she nodded slightly, staring straight ahead. As I waited for her to say something, I stared straight ahead like her, not saying a word. A swallow flew across the sky above us without making a sound.</p>
<p class="txt">“I told you about the person I was in love with a long time ago, right?” she said, still facing forward.</p>
<p class="txt">“Yeah.”</p>
<p class="txt">“Well, when I was with him, I got pregnant. I’d always wanted a family so badly, so when I found out I was unbelievably happy. He didn’t share my joy at all though. Well, that’s because he already had a wife and kid back in Japan. I found that out afterward.”</p>
<p class="txt">A strong gust of wind blew in and swirled up a cloud of sand. A moment later, everything fell silent again.</p>
<p class="txt">“If I’d been stronger, I might have been able to save the baby at least. But I wasn’t. I didn’t have the confidence to find happiness by causing someone else so much pain, or the courage to pay that price and go on living. Afterward, I regretted it so much I wanted to die. But, by that point, it was too late.” She sighed a little and smiled faintly.</p>
<p class="txt">“Then I met Satoru and we got married. Satoru was desperate to have kids too. But somehow we were never blessed with them. Ten years passed and then we were given a child at last. Satoru was happy too. I was so happy I cried. But before the baby was born, it died inside me. I felt like I was being punished. And I was being punished because back then I had let my baby die. I felt like I didn’t deserve to give birth now. Satoru tried his best to comfort me. I’m sure it was hard for him too. He’s so ridiculously kind. You already know that though, right, Takako?”</p>
<p class="txt">I nodded.</p>
<p class="txt">“After that, I managed to get back on my feet somehow, and the two of us worked hard together to revive the Morisaki Bookshop. Satoru was careful not to say another word about the baby. And then he became more and more absorbed by running the bookshop. I liked the shop, and I liked to think that I could love Satoru the way he loved me. But that wasn’t enough. No matter how much time passed, the sadness never went away. I was carrying this feeling around—like there was a gaping hole left open inside me. And instead of disappearing, the emptiness inside me seemed to grow day by day. I started to think that being with him when I was feeling this way was almost a betrayal. Then I woke up one day and realized how far I’d let things go.” Momoko let out a long sigh. It was like she’d been holding her breath until she finished telling me the story. “If he wants to look down on me for doing something so selfish, what can I say? I can’t argue with him. That’s why I’ve been afraid to talk to him about it. I mean you seem pretty shocked.”</p>
<p class="txt">How could I possibly respond? I had no idea what to say. There’s probably no way at this point in my life for me to imagine the pain she felt. I could understand only the intensity of feeling. In the face of something like that, any easy words I might offer seemed meaningless. I could only sit there beside her, shaking my head in silence.</p>
<p class="txt">After a while, Momoko got slowly to her feet. “Sorry to bore you with all this. Let’s hurry back.”</p>
<p class="txt">That’s when I noticed the light was starting to fade on the mountain ridge across from us.</p>
<p class="ftxt"> </p>
<p class="ftxt"><i>On the way</i> home from the summit, Momoko moved so quickly that she ended up ahead of me again. I had so much on my mind that I was lost in my own thoughts the whole way. Thanks to which, I lost my footing a few times and fell hard on my butt.</p>
<p class="txt">By the time we got back to the inn, I was exhausted. It was already fairly dark outside, and at some point it had even started to drizzle. There was still an hour before dinnertime, so we went straight to the bath.</p>
<p class="txt">I soaked for a long time in the hot water, staring up at the ceiling in a daze. It had been a really long day. When I looked out the window, the view was already giving way to a deep darkness. The milky white steam rising from the bath drifted outside like it was being swallowed up by the night.</p>
<p class="txt">The clatter of a door being flung open caught me by surprise. When I looked over, I saw Momoko standing there in the steamy haze, totally naked. Now that she’d stripped off her clothes, she looked even smaller than usual.</p>
<p class="txt">“Can I come in?”</p>
<p class="txt">“Um . . . sure . . . please,” I started to say, but she came in without waiting for my reply.</p>
<p class="txt">“You’re so young, Takako. Your skin’s so nice and fresh,” she said, having a look at me in the bath.</p>
<p class="txt">I automatically turned my back to her. “I’m not that young,” I said.</p>
<p class="txt">“Oh, you’ve still got a lot ahead of you. I mean look at that gorgeous curve from your neck to your chest. As you get older, your age tends to show there. But your skin is still so nice and smooth. I’m jealous,” she said, eyeing me with a little smirk.</p>
<p class="txt">“This totally counts as sexual harassment,” I said.</p>
<p class="txt">“Oh, don’t worry, Takako,” she said, laughing loudly. The sound of her laughter reverberated pleasantly inside the walls of the bathhouse.</p>
<p class="txt">When she first walked in, I’d noticed the fairly painful-looking scar from her operation running vertically about ten centimeters down her stomach. Although she hadn’t made any attempt to hide it, I still felt like I’d seen something I shouldn’t have. I looked away. It made me think of what she’d said earlier in the day about what had happened to her and about the emptiness she felt inside. It felt hard to talk, like I had something stuck in my throat. </p>
<p class="txt">After she was done washing, Momoko got into the water beside me and closed her eyes contentedly. “Ah,” she said, “that feels so good.”</p>
<p class="txt">As I looked at her face in profile, I felt a strange impulse to take her in my arms and hug her. “What’s that?” I said, pointing out the window. The moment she was distracted, I leapt. But Momoko must have sensed me coming because she nimbly eluded me.</p>
<p class="txt">“What? What’re you doing?” she shrieked.</p>
<p class="txt">“Nothing,” I laughed, splashing as I came closer, slowly but steadily backing her into one end of the bath, like a border collie running down a wayward sheep.</p>
<p class="txt">“What is it, Takako? You’ve got a crazy look in your eye.”</p>
<p class="txt">Ignoring the sound of fear in her voice, I pounced. Then I closed my eyes and held on tight. Her shoulders felt very small and very warm.</p>
<p class="txt">“Wait a . . . what are you . . .” She fought me off frantically. Water was splashing everywhere. Waves spread over the surface of the bath. But I didn’t loosen my grip.</p>
<p class="txt">Finally, she seemed to understand and gave in. Her body relaxed, and she let her head rest on my shoulder.</p>
<p class="txt">“I give up. I didn’t know that’s what you wanted, Takako,” she said as she leaned on me.</p>
<p class="txt">“You weren’t paying attention.”</p>
<p class="txt">We both let out a laugh, but we stayed like that for a long time, at one end of the big bath, holding each other.</p>

</body>
</html>