<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Chapter 12</title>
<meta content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:b852dd50-93f3-aac3-96bd-685618565092" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="ct" id="pt2ct12"><a href="004-Contents.xhtml#spt2sct12">12</a></p>
<p class="ftxt">The Morisaki Bookshop stands alone at the corner of a street crowded with used bookstores. It’s tiny and old and really nothing much to look at. There aren’t many customers. And because it has a limited selection, people who aren’t interested in its specialty never give it a second glance.</p>
<p class="txt">But there are people who love this store. And as long as they’re devoted to it, then that’s enough. That’s what my uncle Satoru, the shop’s owner, always says with a smile. And I agree. Because I love the bookshop and its owner.</p>
<p class="txt">Today, I’m off from work and on my way to visit Jimbocho for the first time in ages. My uncle called me last week. From the excitement in his voice on the phone, I knew something had happened even without him telling me.</p>
<p class="txt">“She said she wanted to see you too. It’s been so long,” he said. Her condition had been improving, and at the moment, things seemed good. It was a relief to hear that, at least for the time being. And the thought of seeing the two of them after so long made me walk a little more quickly up the busy street.</p>
<p class="txt">That day my uncle went running after her, Momoko didn’t come back to the bookshop. But my uncle was able to find her. He went to the temple where they’d held the memorial service for their stillborn child. He said that when he found her, it looked like Momoko had been standing by the spring in the back of the temple for a long time. I didn’t dare ask for the details of what they said to each other. That’s between the two of them. But they couldn’t have told each other any lies in that place where their child lay sleeping. For them, what was probably most important was that they each came clean about their feelings. It’s possible that somewhere in her heart she wished my uncle had come and found her in that same place when she’d left him five years earlier.“When she saw me coming, she collapsed on the spot. She cried out like a little child and started bawling. In that moment, I loved her from the bottom of my heart. Tears were streaming down my face. I felt like I was finally able to face all the things I hadn’t noticed before, all the things I’d turned away from. I took Momoko in my arms, and I said ‘Don’t go’ over and over again. ‘I need you.’ Before I saw her there I couldn’t have said something as simple as that.”</p>
<p class="txt">When he returned to the shop alone late that night, he talked me through what had happened. Rather than being depressed that she wasn’t with him, he seemed quite cheerful. “She promised,” he said at the end. “The two of us will talk things over, and then one day she’ll come back. She made me a promise.”</p>
<p class="txt">Then, a whole year later, Momoko returned. She said she’d needed to get her thoughts in order first, otherwise it wouldn’t have been fair to him. He told me that’s what she’d said when they said goodbye that day. She was as strong-willed as ever.</p>
<p class="ftxt"> </p>
<p class="ftxt"><i>After crossing the</i> busy road, I go down Sakura Street. On this narrower backstreet, I pass a row of used bookstores, and then I can see my uncle’s shop right ahead of me. The door clatters when I fling it open and find Sabu holding court at the counter. “Hey, Takako,” he says and waves me over.</p>
<p class="txt">“Oh, Sabu, you’re here? Where’s my uncle?”</p>
<p class="txt">“That’s not the warm reception I was hoping for from you,” he giggled. “He just left on a delivery.”</p>
<p class="txt">I hear a cheerful voice coming from behind him. Looking around, I see a small woman with short hair sitting behind the counter.</p>
<p class="txt">“What happened to your hair?” I say.</p>
<p class="txt">Momoko raises her hand and touches the close-cropped hair above her ear. “Oh, I cut it. Honestly, when I first thought about it, I really wanted to get a buzz cut, but Satoru stopped me.” She laughs loudly.</p>
<p class="txt">“It looks good on you,” I say and sit down next to her. It truly does look good on her.</p>
<p class="txt">“You think so?” she frowns.</p>
<p class="txt">The store around lunchtime is pretty slow as usual. Aside from the fact that Momoko is there, nothing much has changed. And that makes me a tiny bit happy.</p>
<p class="txt">“By the way, Takako, what’s this about you having a boyfriend?” Momoko asks in her usual abrupt way.</p>
<p class="txt">“What? Who’d you hear that from?”</p>
<p class="txt">She points a finger at Sabu.“Just now, from him.”</p>
<p class="txt">“No, I heard it from the owner of the Saveur,” he says, and starts giggling again as if something were funny.</p>
<p class="txt">“Are you cooking him some of the dishes I taught you?” Momoko asks with a grin.</p>
<p class="txt">“No—I mean, yes, but not . . .” I stammer.</p>
<p class="txt">That doesn’t satisfy Momoko. She keeps interrogating me until I cry, “Come on, isn’t that enough?”</p>
<p class="txt">At that moment, I hear the sound of the door opening. My uncle is back.</p>
<p class="txt">“Oh, Takako, you’re early,” he says.</p>
<p class="txt">The moment he walks in, Momoko says, “Hey, Satoru, did you know Takako has a boyfriend?”</p>
<p class="txt">“What? I hadn’t heard anything. Is that true? Why didn’t you tell me?” He comes over and looks me in the eye. “You know you can discuss it with me, right?”</p>
<p class="txt">“That’s right,” Momoko says, clapping her hands together. “And if Takako marries him, then he can take over the shop. After all, we need to find a successor.”</p>
<p class="txt">For some reason, the thought of this makes my uncle completely lose it. “That’s nothing to joke about,” he yells. “Why should I let that guy take over?”</p>
<p class="txt">“If you haven’t even met him yet, how do you know who he is?” Momoko says coldly.</p>
<p class="txt">Sabu giggles. “Well, maybe it’s time for me to go home,” he says. “See you soon, Momoko.” He waves to her and leaves the store in quite a cheery mood. He doesn’t say goodbye to my uncle or me.</p>
<p class="txt">Once Sabu is gone, I say, “It didn’t take long for you to have him wrapped around your finger, did it?” I’m amazed.</p>
<p class="txt">“Hey, I didn’t mean to. I just talked to him,” Momoko says nonchalantly.</p>
<p class="txt">“They’ve been at it all this time. I mean, of course, she won him over. Sabu didn’t stand a chance.” My uncle says this so matter-of-factly that Momoko and I burst out laughing.</p>
<p class="txt">Then Momoko suddenly gets to her feet and turns toward me. </p>
<p class="txt">“Momoko Morisaki has returned home and is reporting for duty.” She gives a brisk military salute.</p>
<p class="txt">I quickly stand up straight.</p>
<p class="txt">“Welcome home,” I say. “We’ve been waiting for you. And if you disappear again, I really will be angry with you.”</p>
<p class="txt">“You’re the one who broke your promise. Honestly though, I’m grateful for what you did. Thank you, Takako. Let’s be friends again,” she says and then she laughs as she pinches my cheek. I’m so used to it at this point that just like my uncle, I cry, “Quit it!” but I’m already starting to give in.</p>
<p class="txt">“Maybe I should cook something special tonight for Takako to show my gratitude.” Momoko thumps her chest proudly.“Will you come shopping with me?”</p>
<p class="txt">“Of course, your cooking is the real reason I came,” I say with a smile.</p>
<p class="txt">“Takako, before you go,” my uncle cuts in, “I was thinking about what we were talking about earlier . . .”</p>
<p class="txt">We ignore him and walk out the front door.</p>
<p class="txt">Outside, the sky is clear. A few large clouds drift pleasantly overhead. I stretch my arms up high and shut my eyes for a moment. I can feel the warm sunlight pressing on my eyelids.</p>
<p class="txt">“Hey, if you don’t hurry up, I’m leaving you behind.” </p>
<p class="txt">I open my eyes when I hear her voice.</p>
<p class="txt">Up the street, Momoko turns back to look at me. The sun glints off her new short hair and she smiles.</p>
<p class="txt">“Come on, come on,” she says, waving to me. And then she dashes ahead.</p>
<p class="txt">For a moment, I watch her from behind as she walks away. Then I run down the street after her.</p>

</body>
</html>