<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Translator’s Note</title>
<meta content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:b852dd50-93f3-aac3-96bd-685618565092" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="prect" id="translator"><a href="004-Contents.xhtml#stranslator">Translator’s Note</a></p>
<p class="ftxt">When Satoshi Yagisawa’s novel debuted in Japan, it won the Chiyoda Prize, named after the district that is home to Tokyo’s beloved Jimbocho neighborhood of bookshops. In the course of the story, he catalogs the many pleasures of reading: the joy of discovering a new author; the hedonism of staying up too late to finish a book; the surreptitious thrill of getting to know someone by reading their favorite novel; and the freedom of walking into a bookstore and scanning the titles, waiting for something to catch your eye.</p>
<p class="txt">Any reader who goes looking for all the books mentioned in these pages might not find everything, but that’s to be expected, especially in little secondhand places like the Morisaki Bookshop. As far as I know, <i>Until the Death of the Girl</i>, the book by Saisei Murō that sparks Takako’s passion for reading in chapter 4, has not been translated into English—<i>yet</i>. But the book that played the same role for her friend Tomo, Osamu Dazai’s <i>Schoolgirl</i>, is available in a recent translation by Allison Markin Powell. It shouldn’t be difficult to track down English editions of Jun’ichirō Tanizaki’s, Ryūnosuke Akutagawa’s, and Sōseki Natsume’s wellknown books, particularly <i>Kokoro</i>, one of the most loved novels in Japanese literature. You can find stories by many of the other authors Takako discovers in the major anthologies of Japanese short stories, each of which is almost a bookshop unto itself.</p>
<p class="txt">This translation owes its existence to many people, especially its eminent editor, Sara Nelson, and Setsuko and Simon Winchester, without whom I never would have met Sara. I could not have done it without my parents: my father, Yuichi, who answered every question I had, and my mother, Susanne, who first taught me the pleasure of reading. The text was immeasurably improved by my whole family, particularly my brother-in-law, Bruno Navasky, and my sister, Melissa, who each read multiple drafts, and by my friends Hiroko Tabuchi, Junko Suzuki, and Ayaka Kamei, who patiently offered their insights. I would also like to thank my wife, Nicole, whom I met one day by chance in a bookstore and who is always my first reader.</p>

</body>
</html>